Tribute by the Secretary General of the ANC Cde Elias Sekgobelo Magashule during the occasion to mark the second anniversary of the passing on of the Commander in Chief of the Cuban Revolution Fidel Castro held at Fidela Castro Building in Bloemfontein, Free State province on 24 November 2018  On the occasion of this historic ceremony to mark the second anniversary of the passing on of the Commander in Chief of the Cuban revolution Comrade Fidel Castro, we bring to you revolutionary greetings and felicitations from the National Executive Committee of the African National Congress. We bring our warm greetings to the people of Mangaung Metro Council, the people of the province of the Free State, the people of our country and the world. We extend our profound gratitude to Comrade Rudolfo Benitez Verson, the Ambassador of the Republic of Cuba, to our country and the delegation accompanying him to this rare historic occasion. Equally we pledge our salutations to the humane and the peace loving people of the Republic of Cuba. Today we are celebrating the living memory of a remarkable legendary figure who has made an indelible contribution towards the development of human society. We are commemorating the second anniversary of the passing on of the life of one of the most outstanding revolutionaries of the world progressive movement, Commander in Chief Fidel Castro. We celebrate a life well lived of a man of profound ideas and a man of magnanimous action. A revolutionary of supreme honesty, a revolutionary with absolute sincerity, a titan who dedicated his own life for the freedom and dignity of humanity. We are celebrating the life of a communist, a worker leader, an internationalist and a father figure to all humanity. We are celebrating the life of an all round revolutionary whose contribution to the struggle for the liberation of the people of the world will forever be cherished. Like a butterfly in the Ancient Egyptian times, his contribution did not only represent the symbolic beauty of his commitment to the revolution but his heroism and unending dedication to the noble cause of the struggle of the millions of the suffering people of the world. His grandeur image was that of a decorated soldier representing the hopes of the world working class movement. Indeed Fidel was like a beautiful butterfly that underwent a complete metamorphosis of passing from the caterpillar stage, to an immovable pupa from which the winged adult emerges. During the Ancient Egyptian times these stages of the development of the butterfly were associated with rebirth, resurrection, immortality and longevity. Today we commemorate the creature butterfly in Commander in Chief Fidel, a beautiful rare spices, whose living memories have become an integral part of the development of human society. Today we celebrate the rebirth of the greatest feats of a rebel leader of the Moncado Garrison, a rebel leader of the Granma expedition. We celebrate the resurrection of the Commander in Chief of the historic battle of the Playa
Giron, a historic battlefield which saw the first military defeat of the American Empire in the Latin American Region. We celebrate an iconic figure whose immortal ideas will continue to guide the future generations of humanity to come. Cde Fidel Castro was a great servant of mankind who belonged to the ages of man to come. His totemic memories are not just of yesterday and today, but represent the magnificent ideas to guide many generations of humanity to come. The symbolic life of Commandant Fidel Castro was an inheritance of wisdom to the working class and the poor people of the world. His was the character of an inheritance which was about serving the best interests of the wishes and the aspirations of the overwhelming majority of the people of the world. It behoves those of us who remain on the side of the revolutionary struggle of our people, to celebrate this great man of honour, a son of man whose undying spirit and ideas will continue to illuminate our guide for peace and justice in the world of humanity. His unprecedented rich life of history of heroic struggle make us think of how much he would have achieved if his age was forever ripe. We celebrate Fidel today conscious that death is the pilgrimage of the soul, a living body in a state of permanent unconsciousness, in a dreamless sleep which has moved a human being to another realm. Death is like a peaceful soul of man which even the King of the palace cannot resist. In the words of wisdom of the Ancient philosopher Epicurus, death marks the end of consciousness and sensation. This great philosopher has firm beliefs that after death one would no longer be capable of expressing and feeling the fear and pain.
He believed that fear was an obstacle of the true happiness during the lifetime of a being. He was convinced that if we could accept death and not ignore it or mystify it, but truly accept it as the end of being, then we could find happiness throughout our life. Philosopher Epicurus had a firm believe that death does not concern us, because as long as we exist, death is not here. And once it does come, we no longer exist. We pay homage to a revolutionary whose tenacity represents the symbolic hegemony of the struggle of the working class. An extraordinary heroic leader who appreciated that a revolution is about love and generosity. Fidel Castro understood that a revolution knows no angels of morality and that it cannot eat its own children. But his heroism was a demonstration that history cannot determine the path of our future, but can give a full understanding of ourselves, of our common humanity so that we can better face our common future. The fundamental preposition of our revolutionary theory teaches us that who ever wishes to foresee the future must consult with the past for the reason that human events for ever resemble those of the preceding times. He was convinced that such events are produced by men who ever have been, and ever shall be, animated by the same revolutionary passion. He was a hero of the struggle of our people, who did not come from nowhere, but was a product of the outcomes of a historical progress, the history of class struggle. Every historical epoch has its own great men and women, and Fidel was one of our greatest heroes of the twentieth century. Even Spartacus of the Ancient Rome was just an ordinary slave when the revolution against slavery produced him into the hero of his time. An ordinary son of a slave was produced by the struggle which saw the masses of the people abolishing the system of slavery during the ancient times of the great Roman Empire. Fidel was a living testimony that heroes and heroines of all historical periods are those who come to the fore to answer the needs of the struggle of the people. That every time the objective realities presents a new task of struggle, heroes and heroines who have to lead such struggles are born out of necessity. Therefore Fidel Castro was amongst the few and the better of the world whose birth was out of historical necessity. He became the representative of the ideas of the revolutionary class of our epoch, ideas which remain to be the mirror of the struggle of the masses of our people. His far reaching ideas represented the objective realities of the century and the overall demands of the struggle of our people for the transformation of society. He was a hero born out of the struggles of the century, especially the struggle against imperialism and colonialism.
He was a hero who led the struggle of the people of his nation against the ferocious dictatorship of the Batista regime. He was a hero who led the struggle of his people which culminated into the formation of the first socialist state at the doorstep of the American empire. Fidel Castro was a hero made by history, known for his incalculable generosity to join the struggle for the political and economic independence of the African people. He led his people to join the trenches of the struggle of the people of the African continent and many other parts of the world in their battle against colonial oppression and exploitation. What we all have to cherish in memory of this great son, is that Fidel is the only leader in history who extended his generous strong warm hands by paying back the debts of his nation to humanity through solidarity and internationalism. This was a generous gesture to pay back to humanity after millions of African slaves were forced to work in sugar plantations and the building of the economy of his nation state during the Spanish colonial rule. He was a hero who led the struggle which defeated the white Apartheid regime in the Southern African region during the battle of Quito Cuanavale. A decisive battle which heralded the independence of Namibia, and the eventual end of the racist apartheid regime in South Africa with the advent of our democracy in 1994. Fidel was a hero because he was able to build infrastructure, and provide his people with free social services such as education, health, housing, security, electricity, water and other social amenities despite the over fifty years economic blockade imposed by the US administration. He was able to build a fervent love of his people for the revolution and patriotism. Through his leadership Cuba was able to send thousands of its medical doctors, engineers and other volunteers of the revolution to assist the needy of our people across the world. Thousands of Cuban doctors are doing wonderful extraordinary work in many of the poverty stricken communities in our country, the African continent and many parts of the Latin America. Thousands of students from underdeveloped countries and developing countries are studying for medicine and other scientific disciplines, such as engineering and various technoloies, in many of the Cuban institutions of higher education. Cuba has become a perennial fountain of knowledge and leadership offering help to many of the suffering people of the world. In his memory we will continue to navigate the historic mission of our struggle through the complex theatre of the world socio- economic power relations. In his memory our immediate task is the transformation of the world into a better place for humanity. In his memory we shall strive to achieve the noble objectives of our struggle for the building of a national democratic society. We shall continue our struggle for the achievement of the freedom and dignity of our people. Fidel taught us that the biggest threat to any revolution is the enemy from within. The biggest enemy of our revolution are those who are singing our own songs and slogans, and are wearing the same regalia for the purpose of camouflage and serving the interest of the enemy of the struggle of our people.
We celebrate the life of this revolutionary when the forces of reaction have heightened the offensive onslaught against the revolutionary movement across the world. The determination is to undermine the genuine struggle of our people in the former colonies and semi-colonies. This offensive is buttressed by the growing phenomenon of right wing nationalism in many parts of the world. This is a phenomenon if not attended to by all revolutionary forces, that has the propensity to plunge humanity into another world war, In our country the forces opposed to the transformation have been demonizing the ANC and the entire liberation movement over the years of our struggle. We have been called ‘terrorists’, with no regard to democracy and the noble goal of the improvement of the living conditions of our people. When the ANC started to talk about the expropriation of land without compensation, and the nationalization of the Reserve Bank and other key sector of our economy, they start instigating a regime change strategy. When we talked about the need to consolidate democracy, they started insinuating the false view that the ANC has been in power for too long. When our movement is voted over and over into government by the overwhelming majority of our people, the same enemies start complaining that the ANC has too much power in its hands. That there is a need to strengthen participatory democracy by forming more opposition parties to the ANC. When the ANC continue to secure the support of the masses of our people, they start talking about the strengthening of civil society and freedom of speech. The instruments that they subvert and use to demonize our movement and its elected leadership. They now want to determine the time and the space of our revolution. They forget easily that they subjugated and imposed their racist rule over our people for over three and half centuries. During these long years of anguish and violations of the fundamental rights of our people for socio- and economic rights, none of them never said twenty years of oppression of the black people was enough, never even one of them thought of giving the African people an opportunity to gain the ownership of the economy of our country. Even today after twenty years of our democracy, they still want to be the stranglehold of our economy. That is why they want to destroy our movement because the ANC is the only genuine leader of our people capable of taking forward our struggle for the radical transformation of our society. The main battle is about the protracted struggle for the socio- economic ownership of our economy. They do not want the wealth of our country to be shared amongst those who live in it. They are diametrically opposed to the great ideals of the Freedom Charter. In Fidel we have learned that if you want to help the masses, and to win their sympathy and support, you must not fear difficulties, you must not fear the pin-pricks, chicanery, insults and persecutions of the leaders of the revolution. We have learned to master the art of working with the masses of our people where ever they are to be found.
We shall therefore work hard with the masses of our people to make sure that the ANC gets an overwhelming victory during the forthcoming national and provincial general elections. We shall make sure that power returns to the will of the majority of our people in all areas of our country, also those now governed by the unholy DA coalitions. In his honour, we shall mobilize the world community to ensure that we end the vicious economic blockade imposed by the American Administration against the people of Cuba. The Blockade is a genocide and therefore a crime against humanity. In his honour, we shall continue with the struggle of the people for the freedom and dignity of the people of Palestine and the SAHARAWI Republic. This we shall achieve following in his great footprints of solidarity and internationalism. Commander in Chief Fidel Castro remains the paragon of the struggle for the emancipation of the people of the world. Fidel remains an indispensable revolutionary with the necessary courage to give hope to the struggle of humanity. We shall forever be indebted to his extraordinary acts of heroism and dedication to the struggle of our people. Fidel is not dead Fidel is alive! We thank you .