Dr Iqbal Survé, founder and chairman of the Sekunjalo Group has announced the launch of the inaugural imagine awards which will be hosted by the Survé Philanthropies. According to Dr Iqbal Survé, the announcement of the inaugural Imagine Awards is the culmination of the Survé family’s support for initiatives which promote the transformation of South Africa and Africa’s social and economic landscapes. The inaugural Imagine Awards will recognise individuals, organizations and institutions who are actively involved in initiatives aimed at making a social impact in various sectors. “For over two decades, the Survé family has pledged most of its wealth generated from investments, including that of the Sekunjalo Group, through several family foundations. The foundations are active in various areas including education, arts, music, culture, children’s’ rights, human rights and climate change.”, said Dr Survé. “While we have supported numerous projects over the years, the Imagine Awards is about honouring and paying tribute to individuals and organization that are working tirelessly, and often against all odds, to bring about change for a better society and a better world. “If every person can imagine a better world and strive towards creating that better world, whether it is in the workplace, at home, in the community, in the neighbourhood, within sports organisations or wherever you find yourself, then we will indeed have a better world”, said Dr Survé. The Survé family decided to recognize and reward organisations and individuals working towards making a social impact. The recipients of the Imagine Awards will also be assisted with funding towards their respective initiatives through the Imagine Awards. The Awards are categorised as follows: Arts & Culture, Children, Education, Environmental Sustainability and Women. Nominations are available via an online entry which can be found on www.sekunjalo.com/imagine. The closing date for nominations is Friday 16 November. The final list of nominees will be announced at the formal Imagine Awards ceremony which will be hosted by Artscape Theatre Centre on 30 November.