Clyde Ramalaine In recent weeks the work of the SoCC (State of Capture Commission) chaired by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo appears to take some strain for a variety of reasons. It all depends where you stand, since your view on the unfolding commission may be directly influenced by your disposition. One thing is certain the terms of reference for the SoCC are clear, its existence is finalised in its status as a Commission. Granted it is not a court and hence its findings like all other commissions are limited as it relates to the prosecutorial dimension. In response the unfolding SoCC its highs and lows and indifferent moments, there is a narrative emerging that seeks to accuse some of stifling or seeking to discredit the work of the commission. Such conclusion lends itself to political posturing be it at a party or individual level. The African National Congress (ANC), the leading party of SA is one of those with vested interests in the outcome of the SoCC. As part of its response the ANC who is heavily implicated if the testimonies of among others Barbara Hogan and Pravin Gordhan are used as a base, in somewhat kneejerk reaction gave an off the cuff media talk led by Zizi Kodwa NEC member and spokesman of the ANC Presidency. It appears Kodwa is increasingly usurping the struggling to do his work Pule Mabe’s role, as the saying goes nature leaves no vacuum. Kodwa attempted talking tough on ANC members who have public opinions about the Commission. In a mix masala of attacking opposition parties the DA and EFF among others, Kodwa also threw the social media policy at some like Andile Lungisa among others. In a strange twist of power politics, Kodwa wanted to sound like a school-principal telling his audience the NEC have had it and will act against ill-discipline. This is such an empty threat that its hollowness rings loud when we all know discipline in the ANC is not an authentic practice that is engaged with a sense of objectivity, consistency and perpetuity. Instead, it is easily used as a means to get at some when you soft and silent on those who are part of your factional expression. Kodwa who had Pule Mabe stand next to him then dared to tell his audience the issue of where the Commission sits is not important what is important is the Commission’s content. I felt like puking for the silliness of this spin-doctor comment. Perhaps the first thing the ANC must dispense with is its claim to be speaking on behalf of a State-led Commission. Someone must tell Kodwa the SoCC is not an ANC- party initiative neither is it that of a Tripartite Alliance. The SoCC like all commissions came about through the correct government processes that rest in an SA presidential executive prerogative. Kodwa needs to be reminded, the South African society is not a homogenous society, we have been and remain a society highly polarized informed by the diaphragm of race and class systems. Both these continue to exist first as inherited from an apartheid history, but also at the hand of a democratic era who have come to entrench this polarisation with its own anomalies. To pretend otherwise is to live in a fool’s paradise. Equally so to assume the witnesses who appear do not tarnish others and we all live in Nirvana is also simply foolish. Zizi, it more than matters where the Commission sits, it matters that the Commission shares a building space with a media group who has vested interest in its outcomes. Zizi, also please depart from the pretence that the Commission in some magic wand automatically will fix the ANC in dignity, unity, focus and by extension rid it of all malfeasance and corruption. Is a precarious and gross misreading of the purpose of the Commission. Please note that any and everytime a witness appears before the commission the pendulum on public opinion swings and the reality of views on the person, the investigators, the chair and the SoCC are shaped. What we cannot do is to bulwark people to deny their right to a public opinion on all of that which defines the Commission. Those people may be ANC and not ANC people, they only exercising their democratic franchise of an opinion which may be made public. Unfortunately, we as the public have questions and for the duration of the sitting of the Commission, our questions will increase. The questions before us as raised by people of South Africa regardless to their political persuasions, party affiliations, what camps they are assumed or economic standings must be answered and not misconstrued as a convenient attack on the Commission therefore automatically interfering with its work. While the tactics of the EFF can be condemned, their concerns in questioning are not EFF, DA or ANC concerns, they are South African concerns. It goes without saying that the Commission’s work must not be interfered with, yet that does not automatically mean those who question the Commission are necessarily part of a group to interfere or impinge on the work of the Commission. Some of the questions I have that in my assessment warrants answering are herewith listed, this is hardly an exhaustive list. 1. Why are our public views translating to an attack on the Commission? 2. Is the Commission cautious not to become an after the fact labour dispute of ex-cabinet members and senior officials? 3. We warrant knowing why the Commission is sitting in a Tiso Black Star premises? What are the implications for this and why is it acceptable. Would we have been ok if the Commission sat in a Sekunjalo – INL office space? Can the plead oblivion on the politics around media and its role in SA as that which confirms an undeniable reality of the intertwined relations between politics, capital and the media that often serve the interests of the aforementioned.? At what stage does the Commission engage the issue of its venue objectively? 4. Why is there a crafted sense of fragility attached to the SoCC until it warrants no one to critique it for fear of stifling its work? 5. Can we not have a public view on what we have seen happening at the Commission so far? Meaning where are we disallowed to give running commentary on a process that is unfolding before our eyes? 6. Why can’t we express publicly on those who have appeared? Why are those who appeared made natural victims and heroes when the Commission’s work will only conclude early 2020 with a to be tabled report? 7. Why is there suddenly no distinction drawn between an opinion on the Commission, it’s chair, evidence leaders and its processes and a blatant act of infringing on the existence of the commission? 8. If Advocate Pretorius did do pro-bono work for former SARS spokesperson, Adrian Lackey, why can’t we talk about and engage the implications if not ramifications for that on how he may treat a Lackay in evidence leading and how does this have bearing on the ultimate findings of the Commission? Is it true that the historic relations Pretorius share with SARS plays into this hearing? 9. What are the plausible intersectional aspects of an Advocate Pretorius’ linkages to Lackay and how does it have to do Gordhan’s testimony as to how it’s entertained in his evidence leading? 10. Why are some allowed to go to the Commission and plead victimhood in claims of attacks when their testimony is just as attacking and implicating others? 10. When has vehemently disputing someone’s evidence translated to attacking them? 11. Why is the assumption drawn that when some people testify, they speak automatically the truth and they warrant not be questioned by the Commission’s team? 12. We warrant knowing how Gordhan’s statement was leaked- an INL report claimed it was leaked from within the Commission it even dared to accused Terence Nombembe with such claim? The public warrants knowing for it to be put peace with the reliability of the repository role the Commission fulfils. 13. If there are questions around Advocate Vincent Maleka who handled the Ashton Willemse Supersport internal enquiry can these equally be ventilated and not perceived as an ad-hominem attack. To the ANC and Zizi we say, we who until now have kept the ANC in power with our voting will not be intimidated by your factional praxis of what constitutes for ill-discipline, when you silent when the Ben Turok Derek Hanekom’s and Pravin Gordhan’s share their views at whim and you silent to read them the riot act about how much a vested NEC had and will act. We are less concerned with the threats, we are more concerned to ensure the SoCC is not used for political means to settle scores, it cannot become the means to an end for personal interest. 