Clyde Ramalaine Self-regulation cannot be the disguised attempts of lusty individuals and organisations to control the Independent Church fraternities We are again reminded of the words of the eighteenth-century cleric and writer, Charles C. Colton who told us, “Much may be done in those little shreds and patches of time which every day produces, and which most men throw away.” This musing in a sense attempts to capture this moment in time of an unfolding narrative of CRL moments of an epoch, spanning time often forgotten when we want to make sense of what confronts us on this score. It purports not by no means to be an exhaustive blow-for-blow account of a history of events of CRL presence as its Commercialisation of Religion report details. Instead, it details a troublesome tale of misplaced CRL, research report, a chairperson that conflates her personal opinions for that of the official CRL, personal and organisational political agendas to control the Independent Christian Church formations in punitive regulation and questionable self-regulatory frames are playing out in front of our eyes. I have taken it upon myself to pen this as a second response to the Commission for Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL) Report tabled in March 2018. It has in this season become imperative to clarify a muffled coagulum of information and misinformation parading in our national discourse on the subject of regulation as used as a threat to essentially independent church fraternities. What we encounter relates to an unfolding saga in the aftermath of the CRL Commission’s Commercialisation of Religion Report tabled in March. Reflections of discomfort with the CRL Commercialisation of Religion Report The Christian Faith Church with the particular focus on the Independent Church expressions definition has since this research exercise by a Chapter 9 Institution faced many conflictual challenges, therefore, being made the object of vilification. The CRL Update published the outcomes of a meeting between itself and the Portfolio Committee on Women in the presidency, held on October 30. According to the Update the Portfolio Committee on Women in the presidency suggested, “legislation is needed to regulate those churches operating outside the law.” The Committee came to this suggestion after it was briefed by the CRL. According to the CRL update, the Parliamentary committee said, ‘regulations and peer review mechanism as proposed by the CRL will not work in the current system within which the religious sector operates. The committee was of the view that religious leaders will not be able to regulate themselves, as the church works on a system of forgiveness. A much more stringent system must be devised.” The update goes on to assert that, “In light of the religious sector’s failure to regulate themselves, the committee called on the government to tighten legislation and to close churches, where necessary. Members of the committee said that religious leaders have failed to take a stand against what has been happening in the churches, including the sexual abuse that takes place.” The committee as it is claimed, apparently, “called on the CRL commission, to enforce its mandate, which is to conduct a legislative intervention, including to make, prepare recommendations and submit to relevant departments. However, any intervention must be done within the confines of the Constitution, bearing in mind that it enshrines freedom of religion for all South Africans.” Nonetheless, the growing problem of abuse within some churches must be dealt with. “The committee, therefore, recommends a religious act, a registration with council within a regulatory framework and provision for a complaints procedure.” While the update also includes references on SARS and by-laws for municipalities, my response is essentially geared not to include the latter mentioned. That can be dealt with in a later note. I have consciously restricted my response to the claims and assumptions, conclusions and ultimately suggestions made by the Portfolio Committee on Women. This opinion, therefore, is a sequel to the first cognisant of the later developments. I will therefore with this note attempt to outline a few challenges some of which I have already raised at the time of the CRL publication: Despite the noise from various sectors some in the name of Parliament, there is hitherto no confirmed decision on regulating any faith as either entertained or ordered by parliament in its legislative definition of the State. While there have been many opinions shared and personal views expressed Parliament has never instructed or empowered anyone not even the CRL to act in working for regulation. The Parliamentary Committee on women’s gathering of October 30, which concluded in suggestions must and should be seen for exactly what it is a committee who met and is to suggest to parliament. We must, therefore, dispense the notion of misconstruing a committee’s suggestions as that which details a parliamentary position. It cannot be that the CRL assumes its engaging with Parliamentary Committee extends it a right to act as if there is a concluded position from parliament which it can use to unnecessary cloud the unfolding discourse. For the record, there is simply no evidence that Parliament ever instructed the CRL prior to and after its research report to regulate the Christian church.  There is still confusion as to what the CRL report really was. Its terms of reference commissioned it to do a research and give feedback. The research adopted an investigative stance and probe, perhaps borrowed from the Chapter Nine powers it connotes in issue notifications and subpoenas. In a sense, the confusion is aided by the CRL leadership who are yet to make it emphatically clear what their mandate was on this score. The CRL has hitherto failed to take its educative role more serious, It appears trapped in its powers to want to investigate, execute and advance punitive steps. I have previously asked why the CRL thought it not right to research and provide SA with a frame of how religious practices and norms came about even in the so-called orthodox and mainline churches. I would have thought that the CRL with its mandate, warrants having a dedicated research unit that assists our discourse on this score. While the Portfolio committee is within its rights to be briefed, entertained and ultimately conclude. The CRL update, asserts, that members of the committee said that religious leaders have failed to take a stand against what has been happening in the churches, including the sexual abuse that takes place.” There are two matters here that warrants engaging, these are respectively the claim that religious leaders have failed to take a stand and the fact of sexual abuse in the church. This claim may or may not be the case, we have no means to ascertain on the basis of what such categoric conclusion is drawn. Equally so the qualitative and or quantitative means for such a conclusion is not shared with the public since it would go a long way to assist our discourse and education.  The CRL update as leading on the Portfolio Committee stance articulates a position that “In light of the religious sector’s failure to regulate themselves, the committee called on the government to tighten legislation and to close churches, where necessary. As is the case with a number of conclusions the CRL update shares in regards the Portfolio Committee’s conclusions and suggestions, we have here again a categoric assertion which does not make known the means by which such is attained. There have to be a quantitative and/or qualitative means to proffer as legitimate evidence or information to conclude since the conclusion lends itself to a grave claim. In the absence of such, it becomes natural to conclude that the Committee arrived at this conclusion as led by the CRL submission it entertained or was briefed on.  Again, while it is in the right for any parliamentary committee to conclude and ultimately recommend to the House its suggestions, such conclusions warrant proper context and information as an engaged process. To this end, the conclusion drawn by the Committee in this regard appears hasty and less substantive in research for such. It equally fails to detail the means of how it arrived at such a conclusion. The committee and CRL warrant sharing with SA the details of the conclusion as a researched opinion, it cannot be flying off the proverbial handle on such cardinal matter. It warrants informing us of what constituencies made up the engaged audiences and what the outcomes have been and why these are a true reflection of the church in 2018. The conclusion is a very serious and loaded one and cannot stand devoid of its accompanying evidence of research to bear it out. We are again compelled to conclude that the only plausible means that the Committee draws this from, is in a material sense only to have as informed by the input of the CRL submission.  One of the important challenges we seek to raise is that the overall group of flagged pastors that the CRL engaged as defiant or in praxis unorthodox even unconventional, amounts to less than 20 pastors. It is a cardinal issue to raise since the entire report, its subsequent mooted actions and claims as presented to Parliament has this as a diaphragm. While one pastor who acts and behaves contrary to the basic convictions of the Christian faith registers a concern, the fact that the number of the CRL research pales into insignificance and oblivion if juxtaposed to the presence of Independent Churches. To, therefore, label and blame the entire Independent Churches as faulty and desperately in need of regulation is not just a sophism, it is to be gravely dishonest.  Equally so the subject of regulation as proffered by some in the political world and the response of self-regulation that adopts a specific agenda is less honest and necessarily encroaches on the constitutional right of freedom of association. From the update we also learnt that there are, in some circles, a need to act against the Church, that action is understood to mean, punitive action. It, therefore, must mean that legislation to regulate, is understood as “legislation is needed to regulate those churches operating outside the law. When one raises the matter of regulation of any Faith association as a non-starter, it is on the very premise that the Committee in its instruction to the CRL on its mandate, as a late realisation and caveat asserts that whatever must be done must be within the confines of constitutional dictate. For the first time in this CRL Update, it appears sobriety is prevailing. It becomes important to engage what it means to allow the constitution to remain sacrosanct, as it relates to the enshrined right of faith association as a civil liberty. We must engage the meaning of these liberties not in the narrowness of our intention but the wideness for what it was meant as captured by the constitutional writers. It is and remains my conviction that this civil liberty for the specific group defined as the Christian faith, in particular, the Independent Churches in this season translates to a shibboleth at least as seen from the vantage point of the CRL and the Committee. Having attempted to engage the easily made subject of the regulation as mooted by both the CRL and the Committee, I equally wish to remonstrate we must be vigilant to question the type of ‘self-regulation’ as advanced by self-interested groups such as the SACC and SAUCIC. The latter is led by a Gauteng Government official Bishop Modiri Shole. Bishop Shole in the aftermath of the October 30 meeting, was in celebration mode with a WhatsApp message he sent as to the immediacy of regulation. He generally takes credit for the peer review model detailed in the CRL report as that which he and SAUCIC proposed. It is my submission that self-regulation, as entertained in this regard, is purely a response in the face of a threat of mooted legislative regulation the same that the current CRL update as relayed from a Committee meeting in a stronger sense now advocates. It is therefore not authentic but comes on the basis of a deal, this when self-regulation is a naturally implied constitutional right and acceptance. It warrants no defence or structuring as is now in this season is claimed. The need to argue for self-regulation in this season is automatically a knee-jerk. 8.1 Self-Regulation in its generic form already exists and is part of the current constitutional rights and privileges dictate. We must draw a distinction between the self-regulation as advanced by both SAUCIC and the SACC and the self-regulation faiths have been functioning under for decades in SA. 8.2 The advanced self-regulation promoted by SAUCIC and even the SACC, is necessarily premised on two legs. One it is based on the proposed Peer-Review-Mechanism system as explained in the CRL Commercialisation of Religion report which adopts an UMBRELLA organisation frame. 8.3 It then becomes the politically expedient hope of some organisations and their leadership to in whatever form, shape or size emerge as the final authority on accreditation, ordination and regulation for the Christian Faith. This idea must be opposed with every fibre in the Independent Church fraternity because beyond the façade, lies the fundamental interest of economic and controlling powers these organisations see as their future. 8.4 The Independent Church fraternities must ask why the undeniable few sporadic incidents flighted and handled by the CRL became normative as the means to look at, appreciate and understand the church in its total reflection of the Faith in general. 8.5 It must know why self-regulation as practised within the social and religious life spaces of SA, it has now become important to redefine that in a mumbled mooted Religious ACT.  9. The CRL must be protected even from those within such as its chairperson Xaluva who appears to conflate the personal with that which is CRL. Another cardinal issue we must flag is the disturbing emerging conflation of the CRL with its Chairperson Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva. The CRL as Chapter 9 institution is a constitutional necessity, whoever occupies the position of Chairperson is dispensable as with all offices. We must consciously strive to distinguish at all times between a chairperson in his/her individual opinions and that of a Chapter 9 institution, the latter at all times should be the dominant attribute for its constitutional frame. It is here we must register our grave concern with the behaviour of the CRL chairperson Xaluva as per the attached video clip confirms an identity the CRL was never designed to be. Not only has Chairperson Xaluva during the period of the research and investigations often expressed non-customary articulations particularly at the time of deep divides between the CRL and some of those who were summoned to appear. She has had open fights with individuals which could have been handled in a better fashion if the basics of the office she occupies were appreciated as that which works for social cohesion. To corroborate the point of a conflation on the part of Ms Xaluva, one only has to look at this accompanying video-clip where she categorically tells her audience that “… if anyone tells you God spoke to them, refer that person to the psychiatrist…” This is highly irresponsible, necessarily flammable and extremely unfortunate statement the CRL chair makes. We are not sure if this is a private comment or if this is a CRL position. If it’s a CRL position, we would want to engage the CRL on this as irresponsible and demand a retraction. May we remind Chairperson Xaluva neither her nor the CRL that recently had extended its terms until March 2019, have the powers to make these uninformed and insensitive statements. The Biblical Record is replete with people of all standings be it economic, social academic that confirms a speaking God who through the aeons of time always spoke to those who are willing to hear Him. The entire Biblical Text ensembled as an ancient Text of Old and New Testaments, written by approximately 42 authors over a period of 1455 years confirms a speaking God. A God who speaks to individuals who uses nature and the animal kingdom to get a message through. The New Testament Apostle accredited, for having written almost 2/3rds of the New Testament text Paul who used to be Saul confirms this speaking God with his individual Damascus experience, where God asks Him, … why do you persecute me? As I pen this note I am a living witness of God speaking to his believers and his servants, in fact, He spoke to me this morning, and there is absolutely nothing wrong with the faculties of my mind that I would need a psychiatrist as categorically and conclusively advanced by Xaluva. We, therefore, must demand a full retraction on the part of Chairperson Xaluva for this thoughtless and uninformed comment that she has attached the CRL as an institution with. Sense dictates that we have the CRL protected even from those within who may stray in hot pursuit of either overplaying their hands and or supplanting the organisation with personalities. In conclusion it cannot be that the Commercialisation of Religion Report, embarked upon to research a specific aspect and duly concluded upon in a report, be made to adopt an amoebic form in which it can manifest in varied shapes and definitions misrepresenting its fundamental mandate for serving diverse personal, group and organisational agendas that simply do not honour the original intent of the CRL. In this regard, there is a need to appreciate what the terms of reference for the researched report entail. Also, the CRL report regardless of its manifold interpretations cannot become an automatic means to an extended term for its commissioners.