CAPE TOWN, November 15 – The City of Cape Town Law Enforcement Department disposed of thousands of litres of alcohol on Thursday saying it was symbolic of one of its biggest public headaches. During the previous financial year, more than 16,926 bottles which were equivalent to 11,515,62 litres of alcohol were confiscated and nearly half of the alcohol was confiscated on three priority days. The city said the alcohol was taken from people who brought liquor to the switching on of the lights, where 1,818 bottles were confiscated. On Boxing Day, 2,126 bottles and on New Year’s Day, 3,805 bottles of liquor were confiscated, the city said. “The statistics prove that, for some, there is no fun to be had without alcohol,” mayoral committee member for safety and security, and social services, JP Smith said. “The reality is that this blatant disregard for the law and the impact of their drinking and antisocial behaviour forces us to dedicate enforcement resources that could have been better utilised elsewhere.” Smith said children were used smuggle alcohol into events, people were decanting alcohol into cooldrink bottles, hiding alcohol in the beach sand to avoid detection and they were choosing open access beaches such as Strand, Camps Bay and Clifton over beaches with access control, and where vehicles and bags were searched at entry points. People found with alcohol are fined R500 and they are provided with a receipt that lists the exact items that have been confiscated. “The destruction of alcohol usually elicits varied responses … from those fully in support to others who are aghast at the waste of good alcohol. A few even lambast the City. Let me reiterate that much of our festive season planning revolves around mitigating the impact of alcohol,” Smith said “We have increased our lifeguard complement to 334 because alcohol is one of the biggest contributors to drownings and sea rescues. “We exhaust overtime budgets and resources to ensure an increased presence on the roads to safeguard the public from drunk drivers and over the last few years, we have devised and implemented the Identikidz project at priority beaches to safeguard unsupervised children who get lost or hurt.” The city said although the confiscation of alcohol is a big area of interest, there is so much more planning going into keeping Cape Town safe over the festive season and a host of departments will join in on this effort to ensure residents are safe. “At a glance, by the numbers, 1,343 Metro Police, Traffic and Law Enforcement staff to ensure policing in priority areas, both autonomously, but also through joint operations with other role-players like SAPS, eight joint operations centres operate across the metropole, 334 lifeguards on duty at our beaches and shark spotters at eight beaches and 900-plus professional firefighters at our disposal in the event of a major incident; 120 seasonal firefighters, two helicopters and a spotter plane to assist with combatting wildfires,” Smith said. There will also be 1,888 temporary workers to assist with beach and business area cleaning and disaster risk management and social development staff on duty at 14 beaches to run the Identikidz programme. “Even the best-laid plans come to nought without the buy-in of all concerned. I, therefore, call on the public to please do their part by adhering to the law, following the instructions of enforcement and emergency staff; particularly lifeguards on the beaches or at the public swimming pools, and taking responsibility for their own safety where it is within their control,” Smith concluded. – African News Agency (ANA)