JOHANNESBURG, November 21 – Sibanye-Stillwater on Thursday condemned the violence that broke out at two of its mines during a strike, leaving a worker dead and others injured and urged unions to respect the rights of others. The company said all night shifts had been suspended at its gold operations for the duration of the job boycott. “Sibanye-Stillwater advises that the onset of the strike action by the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) at the company’s gold operations last night has been accompanied by significant levels of violence and intimidation,” spokesperson James Wellsted said. “It is with great concern that we report that one employee has been killed and a number of employees were seriously injured during the course of the night.” “Sibanye-Stillwater condemns the violence and urges the unions and employees to strike peacefully and respect the rights of others. Reported acts of intimidation and violence will be investigated and employees who are implicated, will be subject to internal disciplinary measures in line with the company’s policy,” Wellsted added. He said operations would continue during the day shift “where sufficient employees report for work”. The Amcu member died after he was shot and stabbed during violence at Sibanye’s Kloof mine on Wednesday night which left others injured. The violence spilt over to Sibanye’s Beatrix operation in Free State province where workers were shot at while leaving the mine to go to their hostel. Amcu embarked on a protected strike at midnight at all of Sibanye’s operations in South Africa to press for a minimum wage increase of R12,500 and an increase of R1,000 for three years. Sibanye currently employs approximately 32,200 people at its South African gold operations, with Amcu representing approximately 15,000 of them in the bargaining unit. Amcu president Joseph Mathunjwa called an urgent media briefing on the violence which his organisation accused a rival union of being responsible for. – African News Agency (ANA)