Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- A group of disgruntled experts in the energy sector have got together to take on the government over its decision to sideline SA’s coal and nuclear drive in favour of the Independent Power Producers projects that were signed into effect in April by energy minister Jeff Radebe. The experts, who are made up of economists, engineers, civil society leaders and entrepreneurs lambasted government for being complicit in driving an agenda that aims to deindustrialize South Africa to an extent where the country will end up losing control over the means to produce electricity. According to the experts, South Africa is in an economic crisis and if nothing is done about it, the recent 2.2% contraction of the economy in the first quarter of 2018 will be just the tip of the iceberg. The main criticism stems from the fact that currently, South Africa does not have enough power generation capacity to support economic growth, yet the government signed in IPPs that may result in massive job losses in the coal industry.  ⁦@AfricaNews24_7⁩ and ⁦@WeeklyXpose⁩ are proud to have hosted the South African National Energy Forum today. This was indeed a brilliant engagement among some of the greatest minds in the energy sector pic.twitter.com/YbVHMeMv5H — Steve Motale (@SteveMotale) June 21, 2018  According to information supplied by the experts, the IPPs will effectively bankrupt Eskom. They contend that the Department of Energy’s Bid Window 5 will be more of the same as the previous bid windows which were allegedly plagued by corruption and favouritism towards companies and individuals who had political connections. The grouping, which is made up of economists such as Rob Jeffrey, energy experts Hlathi Madela, Tsepo Mahlaba, Transform RSA president Adil Nchabeleng, Black Business Council members Stewart Montsho, Sakhi Dumakude and many others who are pro-coal and nuclear claim that Eskom’s IRP 2017 report is comprised of inaccuracies and myths. According to Nchabeleng, the new forum, known as the South African Energy Forum will challenge government and IPP affiliated institutions head-on in order to sway public opinion on coal and nuclear energy. According to Nchabeleng, the signing of the IPPs was a move to de-industrialize a struggling South African economy which will inevitably be led to the privatisation of Eskom. “There is no proof that IPPs will create sustainable jobs after the various projects construction phase. There is also no evidence to suggest that IPPs have been a success story economically around the world. In fact, they have had the opposite effect. What we want to achieve with the new forum is to provide well thought out, critical analysis of the energy sector that will prove that IPPs will inevitably be detrimental to the South African economy,” he said. Nchabeleng said one of the main objectives of the forum would be to initiate an energy Indaba that will open up discussions around the energy issues in SA and convince policymakers to change their views and stance on coal and nuclear energy, which is said to have massive economic benefits in terms of industrializing the economy. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161