CAPE TOWN, June 1 (ANA) – There may still be another twist to the Premiership promotion-relegation saga after Ajax Cape Town announced they are to appeal the decision to dock points against them. The Urban Warriors ended last season in 15th place on the standings, which would normally have resulted in them going into the promotion-relegation play-offs, with the clubs from the National First Division which finished second and third. But after a succession of court cases and appeals over the last few months, the Cape side were ultimately found guilty by arbitrator William Mokhari of fielding Tendai Ndoro, after it was ruled that he was not eligible to play for Ajax as it was the third club the Zimbabwean striker signed for in a single season, which is against Fifa regulations. This saw Ajax being docked seven points and Platinum Stars gaining three points (for the match they had lost against Ajax in which Ndoro played), resulting in the Parow-based club being automatically relegated, while Stars dropped into the play-offs. The Cape outfit attempted to appeal that decision, on the very same day that the play-offs started. But Judge Raylene Keightley was to dismiss their case, citing a “lack of urgency”. In the meantime, the play-offs went ahead, with Black Leopards earning promotion after seeing off Jomo Cosmos and Platinum Stars. That was on Wednesday this week, but a day later, the Urban Warriors announced that they’re not finished fighting for what they believe is justice, with another hearing to come at the South Gauteng High Court in two weeks’ time. “The review of the award of arbitrator William Mokhare regarding the docking of points from Ajax Cape Town, will be heard in the South Gauteng High Court on June 14 and 15. “Ajax Cape Town are seeking the court to order that they are reinstated to 15th position and rightfully earn their right to participate in the playoffs,” the club stated on their Twitter account. Should Ajax win their case, it would throw the league into huge disarray. Leopards, who are already making plans to ensure the Thohoyandou Stadium is up to standard next season for PSL action, would no doubt contest any decision to replay the play-offs. There is also the question of the top eight – the initial docking of points from Ajax having seen SuperSport United sneaking into the top eight at AmaZulu’s expense, a move which could potentially be reversed if the Cape side win their case.