Johannesburg (ANA) – Bongi Mbonambi looks set to start at hooker in the Springboks’ series-opening Test against England at Ellis Park this Saturday. Lions star Malcolm Marx was expected to be the obvious selection to wear the No 2 jersey this season, but an injury suffered during the Super Rugby tournament has opened the door for others. While there was some talk that Adriaan Strauss might come out of retirement to provide some much-needed experience, Bismarck du Plessis was ultimately recalled to the Bok squad from his French club Montpellier. However, Du Plessis was involved in the Top14 final last Saturday, and at the Bok base on Monday, new coach Rassie Erasmus confirmed that the veteran hooker would not be considered for selection this week. “I’m expecting Bismarck to arrive tomorrow [Tuesday], and I think Frans [Steyn] only on Wednesday. So I won’t consider them this week because they haven’t trained with us much, and it wouldn’t be fair on the guys that have been with us here this whole time. I also want to see what condition they are when they get here.” With Du Plessis only set to come into selection contention next weekend, Erasmus dropped a significant hint that Mbonambi would start at Ellis Park on Saturday despite having yet to feature in Super Rugby this season due to a burst appendix. “Of course the ideal thing is to be able to select guys who have had a few proper games under the belt, but sometimes you don’t have that luxury and it is what it is,’ Erasmus commented. “Bongi is a guy with Test experience and the good thing is that he is not coming back from a period of rehab after a knee injury or something like that, but it was an appendix. So we’ve been working with Bongi quite a bit in camp already on his fitness and conditioning.” With Steyn also set to miss out on the first Test as he returns from France, it’s likely that Damian de Allende will start at inside centre this Saturday, although Erasmus was also highly complimentary of Andre Esterhuizen’s performance in the one-off clash against Wales last Saturday. The Bok coach said he hoped to have a better idea of his best combinations after Saturday’s Test in Johannesburg. “We tried to put ourselves in the best position to win these first two games (against Wales and England), although the second Test match (against England) is where we can probably pick a combination out of these two teams that will play to ensure we have the strongest possible side.” – African News Agency (ANA)