RUSTENBURG, June 20 (ANA) – The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) national elective congress starts on Wednesday in Boksburg, east of Johannesburg. President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to address the conference on Thursday. Congress of SA Trade Union (Cosatu) president Sdumo Dlamini is expected to address the congress on Wednesday. SA Communist Party general secretary Blade Nzimande, Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe, Energy Minister Jeff Radebe and Public Works Minister Thulas Nxesi are also expected to address more than 800 local and international delegates expected at the conference. The Liberated Metalworkers Union of South Africa (Limusa) wished the NUM a successful elective congress. “The congress of the NUM take place at a critical time when the safety of mine workers has become headlines in the media, rather than the priority of mining bosses. This year alone, the number of total fatalities has been counted as forty which is totally unacceptable and reflects a sector in crisis. The arrogant Sibanye Stillwater accounts for 50 percent of the total fatalities for this year. “We are aware that the congress will take place simultaneously and parallel to the wage negotiations at Eskom. Our hopes are placed more on the congress, to find lasting solutions amidst this onslaught of both government and business on the working class. However, we wish NUM all the best during the wage negotiations,” said general secretary Cedric Gina. The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) also wished NUM well. “This Congress takes place at a difficult time within the mining sector, having witnessed countless loss of lives in the recent past, the ongoing wage negotiations at Eskom. “We are confident that during this Congress, the NUM will deliberate at length and bring about lasting solutions in their continued efforts to defend workers from the greedy mine bosses whose primary focus has been profits over the safety and health of workers, and that government will equally heed their call to enforce stringent measures in holding these companies to book,” said spokesperson Richard Mamabolo. – African News Agency (ANA)