BLOEMFONTEIN, June 20 – Former Kaizer Chiefs head coach Steve Komphela is lining up for a challenging new position, at cash-strapped Bloemfontein Celtic. Komphela quit his position at Chiefs in April after a crowd invasion by Chiefs fans at the Moses Mabhida Stadium followed a  2-0 defeat to Free State Stars in the Nedbank Cup semi-finals. The cup loss had proved to be the straw that broke the camel’s back for the former Bafana Bafana skipper after he failed to deliver any silverware in his three seasons with the Glamour Boys. He has, however, not had to wait to long for a new job, with Celtic boss Max Tshabalala being quoted on Wednesday as confirming that Komphela has been brought on board, also adding that the former caretaker coach of the national team will bring his own assistant, which could mean that current assistant coaches Lehlohonolo Seema and John Maduka lose their jobs, or are redeployed by the club. The 50-year-old Komphela, who has also held the head coach position at Manning Rangers, Dynamos, Maritzburg United (twice), Free State Stars (twice) and Platinum Stars, takes over from Veselin Jelusic, who resigned from his post last week. The Serbian had led Phunya Sele Sele to the Telkom Knockout final as well as an 11th place finish in the league, although overall, Celtic did not have the best of seasons. Tshabalala’s confirmation of Komphela’s arrival is surely also a signal that he no longer intends to sell the club, which due to financial difficulties, had seemed to be the case for the past month or two. Komphela is unlikely to come cheap after his stay at Chiefs, although the man born in the Free State town of Kroonstad may well be willing to take a pay cut to get back in the job. Nevertheless, Tshabalala could face a challenging time in raising funds as Komphela will no doubt be looking to bring in reinforcements to beef up what is not the strongest of PSL squads. In another coaching change, Orlando Pirates have hired a new goalkeeper coach – former Swansea City man Andrew Sparkes replacing Ivica Vukusic. – African News Agency (ANA)