LONDON, June 28 (LPC) – Troubled retailer Steinhoff
said it is seeking a further three week standstill from
creditors on its debt obligations as a financial restructuring
nears agreement. Earlier this month letters of support were agreed with
several creditor groups, including a group representing 61% of
the external financial indebtedness of Steinhoff Europe AG
(SEAG), a majority of the total convertible bonds issued by
Steinhoff Financial Holding Co (Holding) and creditors to
certain group companies to which SEAG and Holding are indebted
through intra-group financing arrangements. Under the terms of the support letters, the creditors agreed
to provide SEAG and Holding with a number of interim support
measures — including a debt standstill — until June 30 in an
attempt to stabilise the financial position of SEAG and Holding
and to provide Steinhoff and its creditors with sufficient time
to agree a restructuring plan. The company is now seeking a further short extension until
and including July 20, Steinhoff said in a statement on
Wednesday, confirming an earlier report from Thomson Reuters
LPC. “We expect to get 75% of creditors locked into an agreement
in due course – this is just a short extension to get to that
point. Everyone is working hard it is just so complicated,” one
source close to the situation. A second source said: “The extension is just a technical
matter. People know they are running out of time and are
discussing in a constructive manner.” In the statement, Steinhoff said that its final term sheet
for the restructuring has been shared with the creditor groups
and that significant progress has been made, but more time was
needed. Creditors now have until 8AM GMT on Friday June 29 to agree
to the extension of the support letters. Under the terms of the restructuring plan laid out so far
all debt will be reinstated at par and will be given a common
maturity date of three years from completion of a restructuring
agreement. Steinhoff is fighting for survival after discovering
accounting irregularities last December that triggered an 85%
share price slide in the group and a raft of changes in its
boardroom and leadership.