PRETORIA, June 7 – The corruption case against former acting police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane and his two co-accused has been withdrawn after the state’s application for a further postponement was dismissed. Phahlane appeared on Thursday with his wife Beauty and businessman Durandt Snyman in the Specialised Commercial Crime Court in Pretoria. “The application for postponement would be prejudicial for the accused,” magistrate Nicola Setshoege said, leading to the state withdrawing the matter. Setshoege said the state had not persuaded her on why it would be prejudiced if the court took the case off the roll. The trio were facing six charges of corruption amounting to R900,000 and were accused of contravening the provisions of the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act. The Phahlanes and Snyman, who made their first appearance in February, were on R10,000 bail each. The charges stemmed from alleged kickbacks from the former top cop, his wife and other senior officers received for the awarding of lucrative forensic supply tenders while Phahlane headed the forensic division. The alleged kickbacks were in the form of vehicles supplied to the police officers, either at a discounted rate or through paying them inflated prices for their vehicles, which they sold to Snyman. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) alleges that police supplier Keith Keating facilitated the payment for the vehicles for the Phahlanes through Snyman’s dealership. The vehicles include a Land Rover Discovery 4, a Nissan Navara, a Toyota Hilux 3.0, a Mercedes-Benz C250, a VW Polo and a Ford Rover. Ipid alleges kickbacks were given to Phahlane through the sale of discounted vehicles to himself and several other police officers, including his wife. The Hawks last year raided several properties belonging to Phahlane and Keating, who is accused of giving expensive vehicles to Phahlane in return for favours. Phahlane was relieved of his duties as acting national police commissioner last June. – African News Agency (ANA)