CAPE TOWN, June 19 – The saying ‘one man’s trash is another man’s treasure’ comes to mind with player clear-outs at Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs likely to get other PSL club bosses reaching for their cheque-books. Bucs defender Marc van Heerden became the latest casualty of what is looking set to be a substantial change at Pirates, who have also announced the signing of a host of new players: Linda Mntambo, Brilliant Khuzwayo, Abel Mabaso, Meshack Maphangule, Kudawashe Mahachi, Vincent Pule, Ben Motshwari, Paseka Mako and Asavela Mbekile. Van Heerden’s departure was confirmed on Monday by Bucs, with the former Chippa United left-back, 30, yet to find a new team, although he was quoted saying that there have been offers from PSL clubs. Also leaving Pirates is winger Riyaad Norodien, who has joined Cape Town City after a loan spell at Platinum Stars last season, as well as goalkeeper Brighton Mhlongo, who has moved to Bidvest Wits, while more departures are expected, as are more signings. Meanwhile, over at the other Soweto giants, Chiefs have said goodbye to ex-Bafana defender Tsepo Masilela, as well as William Twala, Keagan Buchanan (who has since been linked with Maritzburg United), Edmore Chirambadare and Sibusiso Khumalo, while striker Emmanuel Letlotlo is likely to be sent out on loan. The Glamour Boys, currently at work looking for a replacement coach for Steve Komphela, are yet to announce any new player arrivals, with reported interest in Sundowns forward Khama Billiat and Baroka FC winger Talent Chawapiwa currently appearing little more than speculation. Speaking of Sundowns, the 2016 African champions were, of course, able to convince Bafana Bafana midfielder Andile Jali to sign for them rather than former club Pirates or the country’s most popular team, Chiefs. The Tshwane giants have also been linked with Venezuelan striker Jose Ali Meza. The Brazilians though are likely to lose Percy Tau, the PSL Player of the Season continuing to be linked with clubs across Europe, as well as Billiat, whose contract has come to an end. Veteran Sundowns defender Thabo Nthethe meanwhile has signed for Chippa United, who have also brought in former Jomo Cosmos defender Tebogo Makobela, as well as Botswana duo Thatayaone Kgamanyane and Kabelo Seakanyeng from Gaborone United. Another Sundowns player, Bongi Ntuli somewhat forgotten at Chloorkop after a string of loan spells, is also reportedly on the lookout for a permanent move after his last club, Platinum Stars, were relegated. Apart from Chiefs, Bloemfontein Celtic are also in need on a new head coach after the departure of Serbian Veselin Jelusic, while up at Baroka FC, newly-appointed coach Zambian Wedson Nyirenda’s arrival has cast doubt over the future of Doctor Khumalo, who began his tenure at the Limpopo club last season as Technical Director, but ended the campaign as caretaker coach. Bakgaga have also been busy in the off-season, with Punch Masenamela, Lewis Macha, Khutso Mohwatseleng, Mzwanele Mahashe and Rethabile Soso being released, and a raft of new signings being brought in, including Thabo Moseki, Bonginkosi Makume, Siseko Manana, Ananias Gebhardt, Shabani Hussein, Elvis Chipezeze, Tshediso Patjie, Bheki Maliba, Armand Gnanuillet and Orebotse Mongae. SuperSport United are also likely to announce a new coach, with Free State Stars boss Luc Eymael said to be in the running, unless the Pretoria club decides to retain faith in the man who took charge after Eric Tinkler’s departure, Kaitano Tembo. – African News Agency (ANA)