SYDNEY, Australia, June 6 – After a two-decade stint with Cricket Australia (CA), of which 17 were spent as the Chief Executive Officer, James Sutherland has announced he is going to step down from his position. “After nearly 20 years at Cricket Australia, the time is right,” said Sutherland at a press conference on Wednesday. Sutherland began at CA in 1998 and became CEO in 2001. He has given 12 months’ notice and, as a CA statement said, will continue in his current position until a suitable replacement is found. “In the last 12 months, we have laid key foundation stones which have included a new strategy for Australian cricket, and a new Memorandum of Understanding with the Australian Cricketers’ Association that provides certainty for our male and female cricketers. “We have also just recently signed a new domestic broadcast rights deals that will see broader TV coverage and significant increases in revenue flowing into the game,” said Sutherland. “With these foundations in place, I feel that it is a good time to hand over the reins to a new CEO. “My successor will have a strong and stable platform from which to lead our national strategy and to deliver on our bold aspirations to grow cricket as Australia’s favourite sport and a sport for all Australians.” The Board has appointed an executive search agency to conduct the recruitment process to replace Sutherland. David Peever, the CA chairman, said of Sutherland: “On behalf of the board and management of Cricket Australia we thank James for his wonderful service to the game. “James has been instrumental in driving crucial change around the game to make it even stronger for future generations.” Among the things Peever stressed on were the increase in participation in the game, especially among women, and the financial growth during Sutherland’s tenure. “During his period of leadership, James has retained a strong passion for junior cricket and its fundamental importance in providing sustainable growth to the sport. “To that end, cricket has experienced a 228 percent increase in participation including a nearly ten-fold increase in female participation,” said Peever. “During his tenure, our national squads have secured three men’s and two women’s World Cups, as well as three Women’s World T20 titles.” – African News Agency (ANA)