Sello Theletsane JOHANNESBURG- The Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) on Thursday, condemned the ‘colonial arrogance’ of the US President Donald Trump and the ‘fake propaganda’ reaction by the AfriForum. U.S President Donald Trump tweeted on Wednesday that he would ask his Secretary of State to look closely at “The South African Land and Farm Seizure and expropriation and large-scale killing of farmers”. “Evidently Mr Trump is part of the same WhatsApp Group with AfriForum and lends his ears
to the lies that AfriForum peddles. This is part of AfriForum’s treacherous destabilization
campaign, in order to resist the expropriation of the land that their forefathers stole from
the indigenous African inhabitants of South Africa” said the MKMVA. “We want to issue a stern warning to AfriForum to stop their nonsense and their peddling of
lies forthwith, or they will face the consequences. It is a blatant lie that the South African
government, and with specific reference to the South African Police Service (SAPS), do
not do everything within their means to protect all South African citizens, including white
farmers”. “These stories about so-called “large-scale killing of (white) farmers”, and “farm
seizures” are propagandistic misinformation, deliberately distributed in order to stoke on
racial tension and instability. The South African government is not involved in any “land/
farm seizures”. South Africans react to Donald Trump’s Land Reform tweet  According to the MKMVA, land public engagement programmes were held country-wide, providing the opportunity to every South African who wished to speak up and register their views about #LandReform in an orderly democratic process. Like many other organisations, and individuals of various persuasions, AfriForum was able to participate in this process without any hindrance. Furthermore, the movement said that at the 54th National Conference, the ANC finally grasped that nettle with the Resolution On Land Redistribution and resolved: ’14. We must pursue with greater determination the programme of land reform and rural development as part of the programme of radical socio-economic transformation.
15. Expropriation of land without compensation should be among the key mechanisms available to the government to give effect to land reform and redistribution.” President Cyril Ramaphosa, during presidential question time in the National Assembly, said that the ANC government is determined to redress the gross historical injustice of the land
having been stolen from the African people by white colonialists, and that it intends to
amend Section 25 of the Constitution in order to ensure that the “Expropriation of land
without compensation should be among the key mechanisms available to government”,
without any hindrance or impediment. MKMVA added that president Ramaphosa also emphasized that this will be done legally, and in an orderly manner. Therefore, irresponsible allegations of so-called
“land grabs” and ” land seizures”, are deliberately alarmist lies. “AfriForum must understand that it is the ANC’s democratic, and Constitutionally enshrined
right to pursue our policies. It is on the basis of these policies that we have a democratic
mandate from the majority of South Africans. Any attempt to subvert our right to do so,
either by stoking on domestic instability or soliciting foreign intervention from the likes of
Donald Trump, or any other foreign power, is nothing short of criminal and Treason”. Trump turns to SA land reform, asks aide to watch closely  “Mr Trump will be well advised to mind his own business and to rather address the history
of full-scale theft of the land of the indigenous people of the USA, and the brutal killing of
most of them by his white colonial ancestors”, said the MKMVA. 