Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- While wage talks between South Africa’s power utility Eskom and unions are drawing to a close, some economists have raised concerns on whether the latest wage offers will be sustainable for the state-owned entity in the long run. Currently, Eskom is grappling with many financial, operational and governance troubles that have transpired as a result of gross mismanagement over the last three administrations since the dawn of democracy. Some economists have contended that high levels of debt and muted demand for electricity mean that above-inflation wage increases for Eskom workers may not be sustainable in the long-term, especially if South Africa is to avoid further credit ratings downgrades. Towards the end of last week, following weeks of negotiations with the National Union of Metal Workers of SA (NUMSA) and the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) Eskom tabled wage increases of 7.5% in 2018 and 7% in 2019 and 2020. This is in addition to inflation-linked increases in housing allowances and once-off cash payments of R10,000 for workers. Speculation is rife that unions are more than likely to accept this current wage offer after weeks of protracted negotiations that almost brought the South African economy to the brink of collapse after Phakamani Hadebe, the CEO of Eskom offered a 0% increase for staff at the power utility. Public enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was forced to intervene at the last minute in an attempt to circumvent what could have been a catastrophe. However, providing commentary on the current situation at Eskom, Maarten Ackerman, the chief economist of Citadel highlighted that global ratings agencies have identified poor governance and high levels of debt at the troubled State-Owned Enterprise (SOE) as a key risk to government’s balance sheet, placing the country at heightened risk of further credit rating downgrades and impairing its drive to attract foreign investment to stimulate the economy. Ackerman further explained that Eskom’s revenue has remained fairly flat since the 2008 recession, as demand for electricity has been subdued by a stagnating economy since then. Meanwhile, staff costs have increased some 200% and primary energy costs around 600%, with the result that debt levels have spiked nearly 800%. “Eskom now has debt totalling R399 billion, after reporting a loss of R2.3 billion for the year to 30 March 2018. These numbers not only show the extent to which the previous board failed to perform but are also the signs of a bankrupt enterprise which cannot afford to reward employees with above-inflation salary increases,” he said. He further commented: “The main problem is that, as an SOE, there is no profit incentive. Around the world we’ve seen that any company that is nationalised begins to struggle over time – there are very few examples where nationalisation has been successful,” he says. “SOEs don’t need to compete like those in the private sector do as the government is always there to support them, meaning that there’s less incentive to make the tough decisions such as cutting wages to reduce costs and make profits.” Pointing to the example of Zambia’s copper mines, Ackerman suggested that Eskom needed to enter into a public-private partnership (PPP) as a solution to its financial woes. “When Zambia nationalised its copper mines in 1969, employment and output plummeted for nearly 30 years, and by 1984 the country was plunged into recession. By the late 1990s, most operating units had been privatised again, creating the incentive for mines to get out of debt and return to profitability.” He added that a partial or full privatisation would require Eskom to reduce its costs, beginning with the bloated staff component. “A recent report by the World Bank suggested that the utility is overstaffed by as much as 66%, or that of the 47,000 staff currently employed, just 14,000 are needed for the SOE to operate efficiently. But given that South Africa is currently entering an election cycle, management will find it especially difficult to garner the political support needed to push through wage cuts or reduce headcount,” he said. He further explained that Eskom was not generating sufficient revenue to fund its current staff costs, which meant that it is relying on debt. And with its anaemic financial condition, the market is less open to new lending, requiring a premium over market interest rates to compensate for the additional risk. “With this in mind, the question is which private company would be happy to buy into this type of business with this kind of debt. If Eskom is to achieve a turnaround, the board and government will need to demonstrate that they have the political will needed to stand up to unreasonable union demands, reduce costs and address corruption,” said Ackerman. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161