In the last week of May President Ramaphosa, met with news editors and personally thanked them for their role in unveiling what he called the ‘extent of state capture’. He admitted that he was shocked to realise how deep this runs. Let us hear Ramaphosa in his own words, “Recently you (media) played a really good and gallant role in unravelling quite a lot of horrible things that had been happening in the country; the corruption‚ the way that it had embedded itself in the body politic of our country and the government‚” He was questioned as to why there was a failure to act why they didn’t act to stop state capture early on when the evidence of wrongdoing first emerged‚ as opposed to waiting  until the phenomenon had damaged the country‚ Ramaphosa replied: “You guys [media] were already raising a number of issues on a piecemeal basis…but when you finally prized the whole thing wide open with the Gupta emails‚ I think it became patently clear to everyone that we were dealing with a much bigger problem than we had ever imagined.” Week one of many planned for the Commission on State Capture is done and dusted, it had its own drama, revelations, cautions and intrigues. Day one of the sitting of the Commission dealt with the administrative aspects that will define the work of the commission. Perhaps the more significant utterances came from Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo who chairs the commission. DCJ Zondo, was again at pains to express his challenge with a truculence in a submission of evidence from the public. He lamented lack of public participation as tardy and not forthcoming. The commission also apprised of some submissions received and yet to be properly enumerated for entertaining. One such submission came from SACP. The buffoonery of an immature attention seeking SACP submission which makes up a cocktail of egoistic claims and instructions veiled in accusations of the commission, must not be captured, was dealt with by Justice Zondo with the contempt it deserves. The week was closed off with a central witness and key protagonist for a claim of a prevalence of state capture, none other than Former Deputy Minister Mcebisi Jonas the one half of linking the dots campaigner as usual with his smiley self, ensured for drama. As he read through his written prepared statement, South Africa was treated to what it has heard before namely a claim of an attempt of a bribe, to the tune of R600, offered in a meeting by a Gupta brother in the presence of Fana Hlongwane and Duduzane Zuma.  His testimony before the commission did not fail to have a twist. We learnt for the first time that not only was there an offer made of R600m, but he was also threatened with death by the Gupta brother. When pressed for clarity as to his earlier submitted statement as to the identity of the Gupta brother who made the offer, Jonas wilted from his much-publicised claim of Ajay Gupta to now say he is not sure, it may or could have been Ajay or Rajesh. This uncertainty of which Gupta brother, is now giving the entire testimony a new shade, if not casting serious doubts. It goes without saying if Jonas does not know which brother made him the offer, it equally would not know who threatened him with murder. It, therefore, must mean that even the claim in amount may be wide open for challenge. Zondo, in his questions to Jonas’ statement and appearance, expressed a desire to know more of the claim of the internal hostility against Treasury mounted as from the highest office but also from some departments. Zondo explained to Jonas why this is important and why only those in the cabinet would be able to advise the commission on the details. Zondo’s clarification questions beyond any doubt come in double-barrelled form. On the one hand, he is seeking to separate the wheat from the chaff, with wheat being evidence and chaff being claims that cannot be corroborated. Jonas went on a meandering journey in an attempt of explaining the role of treasury necessarily lending credence to the claim of a ministry that defined itself as the last frontier against what is termed state capture. Zondo clearly not convinced extended to Jonas time in the future to evidence the claim of an egregious threat from President Zuma against Treasury. is unique and comprising those who sought to defend against the threat. DCJ Zondo could not resist the temptation express his now growing challenge of a lack of evidence. He said… “evidence is very important, I will need evidence to compile a report and cannot rely on media reports, but evidence”. The double-barrelled nature of this statement communicates an unsatisfied chairperson who is still searching for evidence. Zondo went a step further in reminding all, the terms of the reference of the commission were to ascertain if state capture occurred and to what extent. He then repeated the if part, because the commission must determine if state capture did transpire. It is here that a challenge a prevalence of state capture as communicated by the media and directed by the president proves the opposite of what the Commission Chair at this stage is entertaining. Remember Zondo from before the Commission’s first sitting decried a lack of public participation, to present evidence for state capture. There is clearly dialectical tension between what the President has been peddling in his campaigns for high office and what the Chair of the Commission is confronted with. As we ready for week two, we are told the expected witness for Monday is former MPL Vytjie Mentor, Mentor is a colourful and temperamental soul, and her testimony promises drama since we know Mentor for her theatrics.  She has from to time added or changed her claims, the most recent we learnt she will inform the commission that it was formed Presidential aide, Lakela Kaunda who invited her to the Gupta compound. Later in the week, we in all probability will hear the testimony of James Maseko former spokesman and communications expert. Maseko’s claim is also levelled against the president, who told him to contact the Gupta’s. One of his claims is that he lost his job because he didn’t want to aide the Guptas. He, therefore, attributes his firing in this instance to that, yet Maseko may have to explain how he lost his job at Damelin and more recently at BSLA, can the case be made the Guptas had a hand in these two independent incidents also? It appears a case can be made that Maseko is not stable in jobs, yet let us wait and hear he may have more evidence and make his case for his claims. Nevertheless, DCJ Zondo will have to pronounce his decision on the opportunity for cross-examination. The process and work of the commission will be left in serious credibility questions if those who were mentioned are denied to take those levelled the accusation under rightful cross-examination. Any report devoid of this important aspect will be farcical since it appears there are grounds for declaring some of the testimonies as unreliable, manufactured and not standing legal muster. Cross-examination will extend a necessary opportunity to test the witnesses in credibility and content of the submission. Zondo’s Commission, therefore, cannot continue without absolute clarity and a confirmation of the opportunity. If anyone including the President has evidence for state capture can they heed Chair Zondo’s call and come forward. Maybe the President must appear and evidence his claims of the ‘uncovered extent’ of the phenomenon as he so boldly declared to the gathering of media editors and on other occasions in his campaigns for ANC and SA presidencies. Is Justice Zondo not directly inviting the president and those who like him believe state capture is real to come forward? Why is the president not submitting his evidence for state capture, after all, he makes up the public the Chair has been asking to come forward with evidence? Let us wait and see, if state capture the media invented crime can evidence itself in substance beyond media and campaigning claims, GuptaLeaks, books and political campaigning. After all, I made the point a long time ago, state capture is the fulcrum of the DA 2009 led campaign of three C’s, namely cadre deployment, corruption and capture. It became state capture because a Chapter Nine institution, the Public Protector October 2016 report, made introduced it into our SA lexicon. We know that the PP office was not immune to the DA-led campaign and so a commission was brought about to establish if it did occur. The agony of Justice Zondo hitherto remains the absence of evidence but we must wait and see, for we heard about 120 boxes of files on the subject matter and its prevalence.  Will the commission close early because evidence remained opaque, while claims vivid? It would be irresponsible to have the commission sit the envisaged period of 18 months when evidence proves skimpy.