PORT ELIZABETH, August 14 – Eastern Cape police detectives and a forensic team on Tuesday arrived at a smallholding on the outskirts of Port Elizabeth where the body of Mark Minnie was discovered. Minnie, co-author of the controversial book, “The Lost Boys of Bird Island”, was found dead at a friend’s smallholding at Theescombe on Monday night. The book, which is about high-ranking former National Party government ministers allegedly being part of a paedophile ring in the late 1980s, is a collaboration between journalist Chris Steyn and Minnie – a former police officer. The book tells the story of “fishing excursions” organised by former defence minister Magnus Malan, wealthy businessman Dave Allen – who died by suicide at the age of 37 – and National Party environmental affairs minister John Wiley – who also committed suicide at age 80, just weeks after Allen was found dead with a similar gunshot wound to the head. The book details how Malan, Wiley, Allen and another former apartheid-era minister, who is still alive, ferried young boys to Bird Island near Port Elizabeth where the minors were raped and forced to do other sexual acts on the men. Police spokeswoman, Colonel Priscilla Naidu, confirmed Minnie’s identity and said at this stage no foul play was suspected. “He was found last night with a gunshot wound to his head. A pistol was found lying next to him. We have opened an inquest docket,” said Naidu. Police detectives initially arrived at the front of the property and were unable to gain access. Detectives and a forensic team then moved to the back of the property to cordon off the scene and carry out further investigations. Earlier this month, Minnie’s son took to Facebook and wrote a post in admiration of his father’s work. Markus Mordiac said that after reading the first two chapters of the book he knew his father was about to dive into something that could kill him. The full post read: “When dad finished this book he sent me a copy. I got through the first 2 chapters and then stopped, Tears and a heavy heart, knowing my father was About to dive into something that could kill him. We have always had our different opinions and an opposite take on life. I never understood why he was so angry yet so protective of me whilst growing up. This story really changed my perspective. I’m glad you had the courage to finally bring this out of the dark. My prayers go out to all the victims, and I hope justice will one day be served to the wrongdoers! Love you dad, keep your head held high! You deserve it! “ – African News Agency (ANA)