CAPE TOWN, August 16 – The board of state owned logistics company Transnet has served notice on CEO Siyabonga Gama and two other top senior officials that it intends to place them on precautionary suspension. Chief procurement officer Thamsanqa Jiyana and supply chain manager Lindiwe Mdletshe also received letters on Wednesday. All three have been given until the end of business on Monday to give reasons why they should not be suspended. The move comes after reports from Werksmans Attorneys and forensic investigators revealed “various acts of possible misconduct against the three employees” and recommended further investigations be carried out to establish the extent of it, Transnet said in a statement. The alleged misconduct includes flouting the Public Finance Management Act, Transnet’s own procurement policies and the Companies Act. In the case of Gama, the board said it was also dealing with allegations that he had wrongfully obtained his MBA with the help of a service provider of Transnet. “In view of the seriousness of the alleged transgressions, the Transnet Board is concerned that the continued presence of the three employees, given their seniority and influence might interfere with and jeopardise the investigation,” Transnet said. Gama told online publication Fin24 earlier this month that he only received help with the language and flow of his MBA thesis, not the content. Earlier this year, Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan fired Transnet director Seth Radebe for failing to act on the findings by Werksmans on Transnet’s procurement of 1,064 diesel and electric locomotives from four original equipment manufacturers. He accused Radebe of ignoring evidence Transnet had lost billions of rands in the state capture scandal. Gordhan said the Werksmans report had indicated that some of the deals may constitute wasteful expenditure and necessitated re-evaluation as well as further criminal  investigations. Radebe was reportedly also reluctant to suspend Gama. Among the deals was that with South China Rail, which allegedly agreed to pay entities set up by the Gupta family’s business associates large kickbacks after it secured contracts worth R25 billion with Transnet. (ANA)