“The people who cast the votes decide nothing. The people who count the votes decide everything” these are the words of Joseph Stalin,  it is August 4, the date set by the Zimbabwean Election Commission (ZEC), for releasing the full and final results of the most recent national elections. There is a glaring contradiction that only Zimbabweans can explain, that being, why there was a bloodless coup but a democratic, free and fair elections resulted in six deaths and scores injured in ongoing violence?  One may look for answers in many places but Josef Stalin may just have captured the Zimbabwean anomaly and problem for many years.  Zimbabwe we are told is a sovereign democratic state, meaning its citizens that meet the electoral criteria periodically participate in state-led elections through an independent entity namely the Zimbabwean Electoral Commission. The task of calling and announcing an election is that of the sitting president as directed by the constitution, this among other delineates set periods, methodology, form and structure as enacted in electoral laws and codes.  The function of the Electoral Commission is to prepare, plan, manage, execute, count and report the results of the elections in an unbiased and honest reflection of what truly transpired. Democracy by itself does not guarantee an incident-free election, claiming a process democratic does not automatically translate to free and fair conclusions. Even in matured democracies like the USA, we are exposed to discrepancies in electoral voting. Democracy, as a 19th-century advent, therefore, is not a perfect system but the world over is still considered the best of the worst of systems by which to give effect to meaningful life where a sense of equality holds.  This was Zimbabwe’s historical elections, meaning the first time in almost 40 years without Robert Gabriel ‘Aragee’ Mugabe on the ballot paper as a presidential candidate for Zanu-PF. Historic since it was preceded by a staged bloodless coup executed by the military in November 2017 which delivered an Emerson Mnangagwa caretaker presidency. Eight months later an election took place and ZEC announced ZANU PF and Emmerson Mnangagwa had won the presidential elections with a 50,8 % to the Oppositions Nelson Chamisa of the MDC obtaining 44.3%   Did the people in the case of Zimbabwe decide or did someone else decide?  Is there a case for a rigged election? Will Chamisa’s MDC make a winnable case for a rigged election and against whom is the claim levelled? Or should MDC really as some advocate celebrates its 44.3% as a significant achievement and solid indication of a changing Zimbabwe if elections are the yardstick?  Despite this, ZEC went ahead and announced the overall outcome of the elections results: Maybe Zimbabweans should be happy for one thing, ZEC this time around kept to their word of an August 4, final outcome announcement. Zimbabweans embarrassingly remember how in 2007 it kept Zimbabweans in suspense for almost a month before pronouncing on the outcome of the elections. Herewith some of that warrant explanation:    Our first challenge is what appears to be rehearsed conclusions of the observers on what is defined as free and fair elections. In the context of SADC region, one can’t help to conclude the idea of declaring elections free and fair is a political means to an end where solidarity of friendship weighs more than the actual voters. We have yet to come across elections declared unfair and not free. The problem may be that we do not know what is meant in observer sense with free and fair.  In conversation with a respectable elections specialist and analyst, Ebrahim Fakir, it was confirmed that the criteria for observing elections are clear, he locates the problem more at a technical level, where it appears there is a reluctance if not an utter lack of interest to make the developed technical advice count, so as to aid better observation.  When one argues for an independent observer report, it has to be one that delineates critical components that makes up a process to arrive at a conclusion of the state of conducted elections.  Being appreciative of the fact that having observers in an election remains a costly exercise, we simply cannot sacrifice the full process of observing and confined it to the actual voting day. In a normal setting, elections observers are in the country for a short period beyond the final outcomes of the elections. Meaning the SADC observers announced the elections free and fair prematurely. It did so a day after the actual voting day.  One would imagine that an important part of observing elections in a democracy includes and extends itself to observing the actions, behaviour and discrepancies of ZEC, in the actual counting process since the subject of free and fair while at the ballot confirmed may stumble in the counting process.  One gets the sense observers are not free from the political realities of the nation they visit or are deployed to observe elections in. On another level, we must ask if the observers report not aid plausible rigging. Imagine had the observers concluded the elections were not free and fair. The case can thus be made that SADC elections observers with their premature pronouncement handed ZEC a blessing not to be held accountable for definitely questionable actions.     The record shows that even before the results were released, Nelson Chamisa of the MDC, as his youthful candidacy affords protested the outcomes since he was vocal that they instead of Zanu-PF have won and the ZEC results will show a rigged election.  In any democracy, the claim of what an independent institution defined by constitutional directive and prerogative as the custodian of the people’s choices for political leadership remains a serious claim.  Chamisa’s error, however, was the fact that he waited until 9 of the 10 provinces had the results made known before he cried foul. Better sense argues his MDC should have flagged from the start the disputes he became vocal about. It can be argued that the issues he raised while rightly raised are defined in the core technical aspects that make an election legitimate or not, could have been dealt with had the respective party leaderships upfront, before the elections agreed to a period of 90 days to sources expertise to assist in fixing for example, voters rolls, electoral processes, logistics and all technical aspects that usually compromises elections in its final outcomes.  MDC did not lead in demanding these interventions timeously, ZANU-PF did not raise any of this either. Retired Justice Kriegler former IEC member of SA, is of the view that Chamisa and the MDC need to be heartened by its performance in this election. While Justice may have participated in many observer missions, his appeasement of a celebrated loss does not explain the fact that SADC observers seldom if ever find unfair and not free elections.   Besides the MDC’s Chamisa complaining of the poll results, another group led by Masiyakurima used the Madiro Region outcomes as the evidence for a rigged election. They directly accuse ZEC of its rigging votes in the Madiro region, when he cites the following: “We had instances where we know the numbers of certain centres, but at some centres, after the voting, the numbers had doubled and we don’t know why? This election was rigged in Madiro’s favour, there is no doubt about that,” The numbers on the V11 forms and the results they produced are totally different. I was surprised with some figures and I can even show you what happened and there are a few V11 forms that are missing and I believe that they swapped my votes and gave them to Madiro.”  According to him Masiyakuria, “When they announced the results, first they first said Madiro had almost 6,000 votes and they said I had garnered 3,000,” he furthermore asserted “…Wednesday they said that Madiro had almost 15,000 votes and I had 6 000. They are even failing to tally the figures and they are trying to rectify the figures. The figures keep changing and we don’t even know what is happening. the constituency had 38000 voters” If this claim is remotely true it would lend itself to ZEC having to explain how it can arrive at a final count when there is such a clear discrepancy.   ZEC claimed a voter turnout informed by an average for all provinces at a relatively high 75%. On the surface this a commendable turn out confirming an active citizenship ethic. On another score, this by itself suggests after almost 40 years of ZANU-PF ruling Zimbabwe voter apathy is very low. It thus says Zimbabweans take their participation in the democratic franchise very seriously.  We may debate this from a number of realities if we benchmark this to similar nation states and find the figure rather interesting. A counter-argument could be the turnout was high because of the historical moment a generation later. Let us, therefore, momentarily accept it to be the truth and park it for a while.   Some argue that the official numbers released for those who participated in the elections if considered in conjunction with the outcomes per presidential candidate does not tally up.  It appears easy to rush to this conclusion on the face value of numbers, however as one is advised by those who know better, the mathematical equations for arriving at a proper understanding of total votes and how this is to be interpreted in presidential, parliamentary and region contexts warrant some technical considerations.  ZEC announced that the total votes cast in the Zimbabwe Presidential Elections as 4 762 498. ZEC further explained that the vote evidences a close contest with an effective result for Zanu-PF’s Mnangagwa winning with 2 460 463 and MDC’s Chamisa securing 2 147 436 endorsements with a further 154599 explained as other candidates making up the 20 additional parties that participated in this historic election that saw 22 parties participating.    Some have asked, where we accept that ZEC’s final results have ZANU-PF winning with an approximate 65% why then is this not translating to the same percentage for the ZANU – PF presidential candidate Mnangagwa. According to ZEC Mnangagwa won with a 50,8% margin and it has MDC’s Chamisa losing with 44,3%. The margin, therefore, is close.  The flipside of the argument would lend itself to conclude that a significant percentage of voters while voting for ZANU-PF may have opted to vote for Chamisa in the presidential square-off while at regional level they for a multiplicity of reasons may have opted for ZANU-PF candidates. This by itself in a party representative democratic election may be very probable while on face value it may be read as bizarre.  For some, the tight contest and loss can be explained, with the claim that the Zimbabwe voter is a unique specimen and much more complex therefore a sophisticated voter. To counter this argument, we can only consider the past elections as the benchmark.  Or is it a case that since there were many more parties that participated in fielding their own preferred candidates for president. If this logic is advanced the question remains why would the same parties opt to vote ZANU-PF but not its president? Not knowing all the details, we may accept that it is possible that voters exercised their minds informed by a multiplicity of factors among others that they at personal level knew individuals at a regional level and may have broken rank and opted to vote for a different party at the presidential level.  Despite the nagging questions, accusations, threats, counter-arguments and military/police brutality that left six dead and scores injured, ZEC confirmed Zimbabwe has a new president, officially elected. Emmerson Mnangagwa the new president of Zimbabwe is as always from the ruling partner ZANU-PF. Congratulatory remarks and wishes have been extended to Mnangagwa while Nelson Chamisa is yet to concede defeat.  The role of SADC observers in prematurely declaring the elections free and fair, cannot be overstated.  We might just understand Stalin much better today, since those who counted, ZEC, appeared to have decided and not the voters as is so often claimed in democracy.