On behalf of the Government of the Republic of China (Taiwan), I would like to vehemently protest the decision taken by the East Asian Olympic Committee (EAOC) to cancel the 2019 East Asian Youth Games in Taichung City, Taiwan, under pressure from China and to appeal to the South African press and media to draw attention to the underhanded tactics that appear to have been used. By underhanded tactics, I am referring to the ramped up campaign China has been waging against Taiwan as it tries to assert Chinese rule over the sovereign state. Beijing recently forced foreign airlines and companies to label Taiwan ‘as part of China’ and is systematically excluding Taiwan from many international forums, such as the World Health Organisation and the United Nations, which Taiwan has positively contributed too in the past. The latest blow comes with the sudden, unexplained cancellation of the 2019 East Asian Youth Games. On October 24, 2014, Taichung City won the right to host the Games. The Chinese Taipei Olympic Committee (CTOC) signed the Host City Contract with the East Asian Olympic Committee (EAOC), which the CTOC have abided by and honoured. To date, Taichung City has invested NT$676 million (approximately US$22.2 million) in building sports arenas and planning the event, while the central government and other local governments have mobilised economic and human resources to ensure that preparations would be completed on schedule and to the required standards. Young athletes have also been training and preparing for years for this event. On July 24, 2018, the EAOC held an emergency meeting to discuss the 2019 East Asian Youth Games. No one involved on the Taichung team was invited to that meeting or indeed even informed that it was to take place. Regrettably, the EAOC made the unilateral decision to cancel the Taichung 2019 East Asian Youth Games at this meeting. It is not just the decision itself which is truly outrageous, but also the means by which it was reached. This decision deprives outstanding athletes in Taiwan and other countries of East Asia of their right to compete, undermines Taiwan’s membership rights, and has upset and angered the Taiwanese people. The government and people of Taiwan fully support and are engaging in efforts to reinstate their right to host the event next year, and hope the international community, including the people of South Africa and related organisations, will lend their support to such efforts. Matthew Chou
Representative of the Taipei Liaison Office in Republic of South Africa