CAPE TOWN, August 19 – Cape Town City had to settle for a point on their home turf after playing to a 0-0 league draw with Golden Arrows at the Cape Town Stadium on Saturday night. Overall, it was a tightly-contested encounter as both teams struggled for fluency in attack, with little more than a few half-chances at either end of the pitch. City had the first real opening of the night when Mathew Rusike’s 19th minute flick located Ivorian defender Kouassi Kouadja, but from close range he ballooned his effort over the target. A good counter attack from the Durban side led to a chance on the half hour mark, but Lerato Lamola was unable to direct his header on target. It was, however, the home club who were on top for large passages of the opening stanza, and there was a great chance for Ayanda Patosi in the 31st minute after a storming run by Thamsanqa Mkhize, but the Bafana midfielder lifted his shot well over the bar. Arrows’ best opportunity of the half fell to Siboniso Conco – whose stinging drive from outside the box eight minutes before the interval was acrobatically tipped onto the bar by a diving Cape Town City keeper Peter Leeuwenburgh. Patosi then spurned another chance for the Citizens when he snatched at a volley and fired well over the bar from a promising position. The Cape side made a bright start to the second half, but just could not break down a well organised Arrows defence. And with City’s defence in equally uncompromising mood, opportunities remained scarce. The game balanced on a knife-edge and there to be won, a loose ball in the Arrows box fell to Citizens defender Taariq Fielies in the 86th minute, but from a great position in front of goal he shinned the ball over the bar. There was an even better chance in added time for Abafan bes’Thende, but with the goal at his mercy from eight yards out, Danny Venter watched as his effort veered agonisingly wide of the upright in what proved the last major action of a hard fought encounter. Bidvest Wits gave up their 100 percent record in the Premiership on Saturday with a 1-0 loss to SuperSport United at the Bidvest Stadium. It was a very physical game, with neither team really creating clear cut chances early on. Wits did have the ball in the net on two occasions, but Mxolisi Macuphu first found himself in an offside position and later fouled Clayton Daniels before shooting. SuperSport surprised by piling on the pressure early in the first half. Former national team captain Dean Furman played a big role in midfield for the visitors. He was well supported by young Teboho Mokoena. The former Wits’ striker James Keene gave the Clever Boys a torrid time, but was well kept in check by Daniels and captain Thulani Hlatswayo. For Wits, Cole Alexander and Thabang Monare tried their best to get the home side ticking in the middle of the park. Too many wayward passes, however, made things easier for Matsatsantsa. Deon Hotto, who scored two goals in the previous three matches, could not really get going and was replaced at halftime. Haashim Domingo found himself in promising positions on several occasions, but his touches let him down. He nevertheless had a satisfactory game. The players on both sides did not hesitate to climb in with the hard tackles, but the referee was always in control. With both sides battling to take full control, Kaitano Tembo’s SuperSport team finally made the breakthrough in the 71st minute. Evans Rusike finished off superbly with a volley after Onismor Bhasera’s shot was deflected in his path. Rusike gave Wits’ keeper Darren Keet no chance with an excellent finish. Wits had a chance to equalise in the last minute, but goalkeeper Rowen Williams was on hand  to keep out a Buhle Mkhwanazi header.Williams was also well positioned a minute later to stop a freekick by S’Fiso Hlante. This was the Pretoria-based team’s second victory in three matches. This victory will be a good boost for Tembo and his players who next take on Kaizer Chiefs in the semifinal of the MTN8 Knockout competition. A late Thatayaone Kgamanyane goal helped Chippa United salvage a draw as they held Black Leopards to a 2-2 draw in their Premiership encounter at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium on Saturday night. After two defeats, it appeared the Chilli Boys were headed for another fruitless evening until Kgamanyane pinched an injury time goal much to the disappointment of the visitors. It was an all-action start as Leopards grabbed the opener after 10 minutes through Khuliso Modau, who stroked home past Daniel Akpeyi. Just three minutes later, Dan Malesela’s side were celebrating the equaliser as Andile Mbenyane headed home after a cross from the ever-dangerous Ruzaigh Gamildien. Mudau had a chance to send his side back in front, but failed to beat Akpeyi as the half drew to a close. Just before the hour mark, Tumelo Khutlang converted for Lidoda Duvha after Mwape Musonda’s effort was partially stopped by Akpeyi in the Chippa goals. Gamildien, proving to be quite influential, and midfielder Thamsanqa Sangweni both failed to take their chance to draw level despite good chances to do so. Daine Klate then swung in a corner in the final move of the game only for Thathoganye to rise highest and save the day. Results of the Premiership matches played on Saturday are as follows: Polokwane City 2 Baroka FC 0 Cape Town City 0 Golden Arrows 0 SuperSport 1 Bidvest Wits 0 Chippa United 2 Black Leopards 2 (ANA) 