JOHANNEBURG – Former Eskom board chairperson Zola Tsotsi has been accused of lying to the Parliamentary Inquiry investigating allegations of State Capture, The Sunday Independent reported.   According to the publication, former South African Airways chairperson Dudu Myeni will shed light into what actually happened when she met with Tsotsi on two occasions. Tsotsi told the Parliamentary Inquiry that Myeni along with former President Jacob Zuma gave him instructions to suspend the executives.    She has confirmed meeting with Tsotsi but denied that she summoned him to Durban.    “The information that was given to the Parliamentary committee is inaccurate. I did not meddle in Eskom business, I knew nothing about Eskom’s financial position or operational issues. I did meet with Tsotsi but he asked me for advice on how to go about removing executives,” said Myeni.    She said she told Tsotsi of how she was able to remove executives at SAA. She further admitted that she brought in her own legal person to advice Tsotsi on the legal routes that need to be followed.    “I gave him an outline of how I handled the removal of executives at SAA. I also brought in people to give him legal advice because he was trying to circumvent processes because he was saying the board was against him,” she said.    Myeni who is due to testify in Parliament declined to divulge any other details regarding the meetings. She was supposed to testify last week Wednesday but that did not happen. Chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Public Enterprises Zukiswa Rantho said they received notice that she would not be coming.   The paper reported that two sources have corroborated Myeni’s story. According to the two sources, Tsotsi’s testimony in Parliament was tailored to exonerate him from any wrong doing. In it, he implicated Zuma and Myeni. He claimed that in March 2015, Myeni requested a meeting with him and Zuma to discourse Eskom operations. The said meeting allegedly took place at the presidential house in Durban on March 7, 2015.    Tsotsi claimed that Myeni was with her lawyer Nick Lennell in the meeting. He further claimed that during the meeting, Myeni told him that he should institute an inquiry because of Eskom’s financial woes. The inquiry would look into the conducts of acting CEO Tshediso Matona, Dan Marokane and Matshela Koko with the view to suspend them.    The sources have refuted his claims. They insisted that Tsotsi was the one who reached out to Myeni, requesting advice on how to remove the executives.    “Before the four executives were fired, the former chairperson Zola Tsotsi through Jabu Maswanganyi and a third party contacted the former chair of SAA to say they would like to meet. She was not aware of what it was about but she agreed as it was a colleague. They had the meeting and Tsotsi said he was having issues with some executives which he would like to get rid of. In the meeting, they had discussions and he cited the financial performance of the company as the reason he wanted them to be removed,” said one source speaking on condition of anonymity.    The meeting with Myeni was because she had managed to remove executives at embattled SAA. The source added that Myeni told Tsotsi that he could not remove executives without following proper procedures but he was not having any of that, he was hellbent on having them gone.    “She told him that she followed the normal processes, followed the company’s MOI, consulted legal people and her board supported her decision and that is how she got it done. How he wanted to do it was outside of the board because essentially it [board] was against him. He was alone and in actual fact, the board wanted to get rid of him, they were forcing him to resign,” said the source.    Tsotsi allegedly reached out to Myeni once more to meet. At this time, she was in Durban and Tsotsi indicated he wouldn’t mind going there to meet.    “The request was on an urgent basis. Myeni was in Durban at the time. She told him that if it’s urgent, he can come to Durban if did not mind. She was meeting former President Jacob Zuma at his residence in Durban regarding foundation issues. Tsotsi went to Durban along with Jabu Maswanganyi. When they arrived, they were taken to a meeting room where they had their discussions. He leaves out Jabu Maswanganyi but mentions other people’s names, I don’t know why,” said the source.    Tsotsi’s version was further challenged on the basis that he received instructions from Zuma. The sources said When he and Myeni met, Zuma walked into the room but turned back when he saw them together.    “The situation in the house is that there are numerous meeting rooms in it and the staff places people inside and inform the president of where the meetings are and with who. Myeni and Tsotsi met in one of the rooms. When the former president walked into the room, he was under the impression that he was meeting with the Myeni. When he found them together he greeted and left the room to allow the pair to continue their talk. He never asked what the meeting was about. We later learned through the media that Tsotsi claimed he was instructed by the former president to do this, which is untrue. Yes, they met at the presidential home but he did not give anyone instructions nor did the former chairperson of SAA. Why would she meddle in the affairs of another SOE?”    It was during this meeting that Tsotsi allegedly mentioned the names of the individuals he wanted to suspend. The sources further indicated that he had already drafted the suspension letters which he intended to serve the next the day. But once again, Myeni stood by her earlier advice that they can’t be removed without following due processes.    “During that, he mentions the names of the executives he wanted to get rid of, Matshela Koko, Dan Marokane, former CEO and another executive. He said they were the core of the problems at the company and they were behind the load shedding. At that meeting, because he was insisting that Myeni help him to get rid of the executives and was told it would be impossible without the support of his bosses, she brought in her own lawyer to walk him through the process of dealing with such an issue. Nick Lennell advised Tsotsi that what he wanted to do was not possible and gave the legal ramifications for taking unilateral decisions but Tsotsi was set in his ways,” said the source.   Koko has maintained that he was only suspended because he refused to carry out unethical things that were requested by Tsotsi.   He stuck by his testimony in Parliament. He said he was suspended because the board thought that he along with the other executives were sabotaging the country because of load-shedding. He also refuted the allegations that he was blackmailing Tsotsi.    “I knew why I was being suspended. I was being suspended for refusing to take unlawful instructions from the chairman at the time Zola Tsotsi. I was shocked by his testimony and I’m also shocked that there are allegations I was blackmailing him. I stand by my testimony in Parliament,” he said.  Lennell declined to comment on the matter. He said the evidence should first be presented in Parliament.   “May I respectfully suggest that the versions be first presented in front of the Parliamentary committee. It would be better to analyse all the evidence there and then attempt to rationalise all the contradictory versions – that will make great journalism,” he said.    Maswanganyi also opted not to comment at the moment. He said he would comment once the Parliamentary process has been concluded.   “The matter between Zola Tsotsi and Dudu Myeni is in Parliament. It would not be proper for me comment until the Parliamentary process has been completed,” Maswanganyi said.    The paper was threatened with legal action by Maswanganyi’s lawyer who claimed his client was not given adequate time to respond to a media inquiry, despite having sent through his answers.