Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- The Gauteng education department on Monday said that appropriate actions will be taken against Eldorado Park Secondary school teachers who have embarked on a go slow. Concerned parents said that there has been no effective teaching and learning taking place at the school because of the go slow. The teachers who have embarked on a go-slow only started reporting for duty on Thursday last week after staying away from work for several weeks. “We are following through on the matter. We are aware of the allegations that they are on a go slow. If they are not in class, we need to deal with them decisively. They must be in class and necessary actions should be taken against them,” Gauteng education department spokesperson, Steve Mabona said. Anthony Phillip Williams, Patriots for Equality organisation on Monday said that if the go-slow continues, an announcement on how they would be dealing with it would be made on Wednesday. “These teachers are on a go slow at the school. What parents are doing is to monitor the situation at the school so that on Wednesday we can say what we want to do if this persists. There’s no effecting teaching and learning taking place. The situation has not normalised. All those replacement teachers have come back to school, those who were appointed will have to finish up until their contracts come to an end,” Williams said. According to parents and SGB members, problems at the school began when the SGB informed teachers who are members of the SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) not to hold their meeting at the school premises. Eight teachers left the school complaining that the school principal was victimising them. “There’s an investigative body that did some work there and they gave us some recommendations which we are implementing. We are also checking on the role that the principal has played in the complaints of those teachers. We’ve agreed that those teachers should go back to school. Because of the issues they had at the school, they decided to report to the district. The teachers said that they are unfairly treated by the principal, other one alleged that they were sworn at,” Mabona said. In a meeting held in February between the provincial education MEC Panyaza Lesufi and parents, a decision to replace the eight teachers was taken. After five new teachers started working at the school this year, 14 other teachers joined the eight that had left. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161