JOHANNESBURG – With the time drawing nearer, 35 new names have been added to the final line-up of artists to perform in the Johannesburg leg of the Red Bull Music Festival taking place in April. The festival will be held from  April 3 – 8. The new additions encapsulate an array of musical styles, including South Africa’s live house duo; Sai & Ribatone, pantsula dance crew, Real Action Pantsula, young and vibrant musicians; Tshepo Tsotetsi and Bonj Mpanza, radio personality Glen Lewis, jazz singer Zoe Modiga, Aunty hitmaker Kid X and Janus van der Merwe. The city’s iconic venues, which include The Orbit, 73 Juta Street, Fox Junction, Zone 6 and local groove joints Kitcheners, Great Dane, and Club as well as Republic of 94 are some of the spots that will host the festival. The opening night will kick off in Braamfontein with an intimate session with two of South Africa’s most exciting young musicians and vocalists, Langa Mavuso and Zoe Modiga. Titled Khumbula, the performance will pay tribute to the country’s rich historical heritage while they also perform renditions of their current songs that have made them the artists they are today. Kenzhero will end off the night with a DJ set that encapsulates music of the past, present and future. The festival will continue for the rest of the week before closing off with the night honouring artists who’s pioneering sounds are distinct to South Africa, rooted in tradition and elevated through millennial culture. Durban Gqom producers and DJs, Rudeboyz will perform the music genre that has taken the country by storm. They’ll share a stage with hip hop artist AKA, gqom counterparts Distruction Boyz and deep house producer Da Capo. The Red Bull Music Festival Johannesburg is a global celebration of 20 years of the Red Bull Music Academy. The Academy is a world-traveling series of music workshops and festivals. Festival goers of all ages visiting the city will undoubtedly celebrate Johannesburg in its legendary light. The festival has been held in various cities including Los Angeles, New York City and Paris and espouses the values of the RBMA: to create, collaborate and celebrate the SA music scene.