Zodidi Mhlana and Solly Makganoto The president of the SA Local Government Association (Salga) Parks Tau has challenged different sectors within the country to make more concerted efforts in ensuring that South Africa’s energy future was sustainable. Speaking at Salga’s Energy Summit taking place in Sandton Johannesburg on Tuesday, Tau said that the electricity distribution industry was faced with many challenges. “Sales of electricity in the municipalities have shown a sustained downward trend over the last years and have in some instances dropped instantly. These dynamics have radical implications for local municipalities that are compelled to redefine their role in the electricity value chain and adapt their funding and operating models,” Tau said. Salga’s CEO Xolile George said that legislations changes should be made in a bid to create a culture of payments within the municipalities. “At the level of government structures, the leadership of Salga we made specific proposals on how we think citizens need to be pursued much more aggressively as well as business. One of those proposals is the acknowledgement from our side that if you look at the current legislation that is government municipalities. I will cite one example, the municipal systems act, it is a legislation that prohibits council officials from owing the municipalities beyond three months, so it is legislated. We think there must amendments on that legislation first to make sure that it’s compulsory whether, you are public officer bearer nationally, provincially as well as a civil servant or a private servant not to own municipalities beyond a certain period unless the bill is in dispute,” George said. Power utility Eskom has recently told parliament that it needed the government to step in addressing the fact that it is owed R30billion by several entities including municipalities. The chairperson of the National Council of Provinces‚ Thandi Modise,who was the quest speaker questioned why the country has been dependent on Eskom for electricity since 1994‚ when the power utility is inefficient. “Energy is a big discriminator. It says to you who I am. From where I live‚ you can tell the quality of energy I am exposed to. For me … I have queried why‚ since 1994‚ we have allowed that type of energy and connections that Eskom does to the rural areas and people in the townships. She also described Eskom as a “discriminator” because it provided energy unequally‚ leaving rural and township residents with substandard power. “Energy is a big discriminator. It says to you who I am. From where I live‚ you can tell the quality of energy I am exposed to. For me … I have queried why‚ since 1994‚ we have allowed that type of energy and connections that Eskom does to the rural areas and people in the townships. “Energy says when my child can go to school. Energy defines the type of health system that is available to the majority of South Africans. Energy is still one of the most strategic factor of production. “Without reliable‚ quality and sustainable electricity supply‚ we are unable to attract investment into the rural areas.” Modise said it was important for rural woman to have a guaranteed, and safe apply of electricity. “It [electricity supply] must not define us. It must enable us to be equal‚” she said. “I am saying that municipalities and Eskom should not make profit out of our need to sustain our families. I am also saying that…we must pay for what we consume. If we must pay for what we consume‚ we must also not pay for what somebody is estimating‚” Modise said. She said that votes would soon enough put pressure on government to ensure fair power distribution. “There are areas in South Africa…where if the wind is strong enough‚ the TV goes off. These are the voters that are supposed to say‚ yes‚ we are now connected and are equal with rest of the country‚” said Modise. Kumi Naidoo, executive director at Greenpeace International said that South Africa should be investing in renewable energy projects. “Renewable energy projects should be the first energy and nuclear deal should be taken out of the table. The idea of nuclear of deal is ill- convinced and too expensive,” he said during the debate. The Salga Energy Summit will take place for a period of three days with the aim of leading the essential conversation and efforts to define the energy future for local government in South Africa.