PRETORIA, March 19 – Officials from the departments of correctional services and home affairs have been arrested for illegally releasing at least 36 parolees from foreign countries including Brazil and Zimbabwe. The culprits flouted the South African law which requires they deport such parolees. On Monday, Minister of Police Bheki Cele, Justice and Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha and Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba led a press briefing in Pretoria where they outlined the results of a March 16 pre-dawn raid which led to the arrest of nine, of the wanted 11 government officials. “The officials were allegedly involved in the releasing of at least 36 parolees, of all which were women, over a period of more than a year without following proper procedures for financial gain,” said Cele. “The foreign parolees, most of which were drug smugglers or drug mules, had to be released and deported to their countries of origin through the Lindela deportation centre. “Instead, they were sent directly to the Johannesburg department of home affairs regional office for an unprocedural and illegal early release.” Some of the illegally released parolees and ex-convicts have since left South Africa through their own expenses and travel arrangements. “Some have remained in South Africa, of which six of them have been re-arrested and it emerged that these six had no intention of leaving South Africa,” said Cele. These parolees, even if they remained in South Africa, they were not tied up to any conditions like reporting to authorities at intervals of time, or in their countries of origin. Some are believed to have continued with their smuggling activities. “The investigation further revealed that South African officials were paid in cash, or into their bank accounts from the parolees’ families or friends. At times, the officials would demand bribes of the amount of R3,000 for those from African countries and R6,000 for those from outside Africa – South American countries,” said Cele. The six parolees that have been re-arrested are from Guyana, South America, who had been arrested for narcotics-related offences, one from Zambia who had been serving time for narcotics, plus two Zimbabweans who were arrested for theft. Other illegally released parolees who are now wanted by South African authorities are from Guyana, Congo, Nigeria, Ghana, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, and Lesotho. – African News Agency (ANA)