Ayanda Mdluli ANC leaders, on Tuesday have expressed that land expropriation without compensation will move into full effect (albeit at a careful pace) and is an increasing reality as the party agreed with the resolution made in parliament to review and make amendments to section 25 of the constitution. Addressing traditional leaders in cape Town on Thursday, South Africa and ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa said the original sin of colonization must be resolved in a way that will take south Africa forward. This meant addressing the issue of land appropriation without compensation, which has been reignited and gained increased popularity in a country plagued by high levels of unemployment, poverty and inequality The Land Audit Report of November 2017, a research document on land ownership patterns in SA undertaken by the department of Rural development and Land Reform reveals that Whites in SA own 26 663 144 ha or 72% of the total 37 031 283 ha of farms and agricultural holdings by individual landowners. This is followed by Coloured at 5 371 383 ha or 15%, Indians at 2 031 790 ha or 5%, Africans at 1 314 873 ha or 4%, other at 1 271 562 ha or 3%, and co-owners at 425 537 ha or 1%. “We need to ensure that land expropriation becomes a reality and we will find solutions by engaging in the South African way of dialogue, collaboration and engagement…SA is only country in Africa with adequate food security. Now our people will be getting their own land but we have to maintain food security,” said Ramaphosa. He further explained that land expropriation would be handled “with care and responsibility”. “There will be no smash and grabbing of land in this country. There are some trying to drive fear. Telling foreign investors saying it is not safe to invest in SA. Please don’t drive fear…Over 1000 unemployed graduates in Agriculture will be empowered and equipped with skills to help the ageing Farming Industry We must use the upcoming investment summit to present solid implementable plans to improve local economic development,” he said. In an ANC briefing held at Luthuli House in Johannesburg after the president’s address, Fikile Mbalula, who has now been appointed as the ANC’s head of election campaigns said the question of land in SA is a historical injustice and the move to make amendments was a victory for the people of SA. “Up until now we have not tampered with land redistribution fundamentally to the point where the dispossessed and get their land back. Radical economic Transformation means speeding up the question of land redistribution. It is an important milestone in the politics of SA… We have come with a decisive decision on the matter…We are handling the matter mandated by conference resolution,” he said.