Ayanda Mdluli In South Africa, the notion of Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) and business transformation is often a viewed as a slow and laborious exercise where many black players in various industries continue to fight for a place to participate in the mainstream economy. However, not all is doom and gloom as one major corporate in the funeral sector has managed to introduce more black players than ever before in an industry that is largely perceived as white and male dominated. Doves Group was established in 1883 as a funeral directing organisation in Durban initially named Doves Funeral Services. It is considered one of the largest funeral directing companies in Southern Africa and a major roleplayer in the progressive development of the funeral industry. The company runs a national network in excess of 160 branches in all nine provinces, providing insurance, funeral services and related products. Africa News 24-7 caught up with Minki Rasenyalo, the CEO of Doves to talk about how the company is playing a major role in transforming a sector which was recently placed under the spotlight when the company was at the centre of a racially charged tiff with the National Funeral Practitioners’ Association of SA. The latter had called for more players to transform in the sector, placing it under the spotlight. Rasenyalo is the first black woman to be appointed CEO of Doves Group.  She has led the company’s growth and refocused Doves Group into financial services since 2010 when she took over.  She joined Doves Group in 2009 as General Manager for Doves Coastal. She started her management career at Royal Sechaba Catering in March 2003 as a Project Manager and then progressed to become an Area Manager, a position she served until June 2006. Rasenyalo is of the view that even though a lot still needs to be done to ensure faster progress of black women in the industry, the view that the sector is untransformed is a fallacious proposition at best. “Most of the players in the sector are black, about 5000 of them, so when it comes to the issue of transformation there are a number of variables that one needs to consider, especially with the participation of black women in the funeral parlour environment. Just like any other environment, the funeral business is not unique to the structural imbalances of our economy. The challenges facing black women are similar to every profession and this part of the business world is no different,” she says. She believes that one of the major hurdles is overcoming stereotypes where male counterparts are viewed as more competent than their female colleagues. “They look at you through that microscope and as a woman you find yourself working ten times harder to make a more impactful contribution in a corporate environment. These are some of the core challenges that we are faced with on a daily basis. We are special like that so we will not try to be males. The industry is still highly male dominated but that is because the industry is constituted of entrepreneurs and mostly small SMMEs and the majority of people who are willing to take a risk to own this type of business are males so in that way it has influenced the number of males to own a business,” she explains. With that said, she highlights that one of her major roles is to influence females to become entrepreneurs in this space. Although the business environment in the industry remains very lucrative, she contends that the market has become highly saturated, part of which is largely because people are living longer and taking better care of themselves. These days, the cost of arranging a funeral can rival that of a wedding, interjects Rasenyalo. Funerals can set one back by about R80,000 and usually advises her franchisees to strive to be a one-stop shop concept that provides all the major services that are required for a person to have a decent burial. The business of death can also be an expensive venture to start up. For a funeral parlour the start-up cost can be about R1.5-million to R2.5-million. She explains that the fridge alone is quite expensive and contributes a lot to the operational cost. She adds: “What drives the sector and in order to run a successful franchise is that you need to love the industry and you need to love working with people. It can be very difficult to work with people when they are bereaved. People can seem as if they are normal in difficult times but they are not and it can also depend on how a loved one died. If the death was unnatural people can blame you as an undertaker and take you to court. They can also blame you just to find closure,” she says. What also drove her to become a major roleplayer in this industry is that “the world can be a source of tragedy where someone we love can be gone in the blink of an eye”. With that philosophy in mind, her company is also involved in a campaign that encourages everyday South Africans to tell their loved ones just how much they mean to them through what she calls the Isikhumbuzo campaign which aims to create good memories by helping people remember to tell their loved ones how they feel about them before it’s too late. “The thinking behind Isikhumbuzo is rooted in how we often take the people around us for granted. People forget to tell their loved ones how much they mean to them, while they are alive. With Isikhumbuzo we call on all South Africans to join in making someone feel special,” she concludes.