Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- It was supposed to be a day of Human Rights where each citizen of South Africa got to reflect about the difficulties our previous generation had to endure. Instead, for one man who is vocal against the institutionalised racism in South Africa’s corporate sector, it turned into a nightmare of epic proportions. Three armed men brazenly kicked the door down at Transform RSA president Adil Nchabeleng’s Johannesburg residence on Wednesday. According to Nchabeleng, his housekeeper was held at gunpoint and tied-up in a room while the thugs ransacked his home, stealing laptops, documents, and other valuables. Speaking on the incident Nchabeleng said he was shocked and dismayed by the despicable act which appears as though it was intended to be some form of intimidation against him. This week, Transform RSA along with National Union of Metalworkers of SA (NUMSA) took the Department of Energy to court to halt government’s long-awaited signing of agreements with 27 renewable energy independent power producer projects (IPPs). On Monday night, the North Gauteng High Court granted an interdict blocking the signing. Nchabeleng said: “The act is that of intimidation, disguised as a burglary.  They damaged my property. At this juncture, we are involved in high profile cases. This will only effect of our resolve to defeat the forces of evil we are up against. As we commemorate this sad Human Rights Day we remain committed to the struggle of freeing our people from economic and social hardships.” On Tuesday, the Department of Energy, ESKOM, Treasury and the 27 IPP’s failed to meet the 16H00, 20th March 2018 set deadline to file their Responding Affidavits as instructed by the North High Court. According to Nchabeleng, the Department of Energy, Eskom and the 27 IPP’s have not as yet provided reasons as to their failure to comply with the set deadline as instructed by the court and according to court rules. “We will keep you further updated on the develops. The IPP’s have been opposed due to their high costs, Eskom liquidity and loss of jobs in the industry,” he said. @AyandaMdluli
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161