Five South African soldiers deployed in the Democratic Republic of Congo are now  accused of sexually exploiting women and the victims are pursuing paternity and child support claims. Stéphane Dujarric, spokesman for the United Nations Secretary‑General said this week that the new allegations against South African peacekeepers occurred between  2014 and 2016 in  North Kivu and in South Kivu. Dujarric said that the five cases involved paternity and child support claims. “The Mission has received reports of sexual exploitation and abuse involving five members of South African military contingent in the DRC.  According to the information available at this time, all five incidents involve paternity and child support claims.  Four of the incidents were reportedly ongoing sexually exploitative relations with adults.  One incident concerns the sexual abuse of a minor, though she is now an adult.  Ensuring the provision of assistance to victims is our priority.  The women and children have been referred to UNFPA (United Nations Population Fund) and UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund) respectively for support and assistance,” he said. He further said that investigation into the allegations would be set up and that support would be provided to all the victims. “The Mission will continue to monitor their well‑being and needs, as well as provide any additional assistance, such as the collection of DNA samples for paternity testing.  We have informed the Member States of this allegation and have requested that the National Investigative Officers be appointed between five within five working days and the investigation’s being completed with new reduced 90‑day time -frame, due to the serious concern raised by the new allegations.  We’ve also requested that the investigation be jointly conducted with a team from OIOS (Office of Internal Oversight Services), but our requests for a joint investigation was previously rejected by the South African government for the last set of allegations.  So, we do expect that that may be the case here, as well.  We’re, of course, gravely concerned about the allegations, which come only a month after three reports of sexual exploitation involving the South African military contingent were received by the UN Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO).  Allegations against this contingent continue to occur, despite our sustained efforts to partner with Member States and to prevent and address sexual exploitation and abuse, as well as other forms of misconduct,”  Dujarric said. In February this year, the South African  National Defence Force (SANDF) said that it was working with the United Nations in investigating sexual exploitation allegations facing its peacekeepers based in the DRC. An investigative team was dispatched  to the DRC after the UN alerted them about the allegations. The UN had announced that it received four reports of misconduct against South African soldiers which took place in Sake, Beni and Goma. The soldiers were also accused of physical assaulting a 17 year-old boy. @Mhlana Zodidi.mhlana@africanews24-7.co.za