Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- The land questions and dealing with internal disputes within the ANC were at the centre of the party’s 54th Policy Conference in December last year. The adopted resolutions were released at Luthuli House on Monday and reaffirmed land reform without compensation, resolving that the policy should be implemented in a manner that would not be detrimental to agricultural production and feed security in SA. The party also reaffirmed that it would establish a series of a committee to ensure that internal disputes are handled in a manner that would cement the party’s position as a leader in society. the party’s Secretary General, Ace Magashule told the media yesterday that the release of the party resolutions should be used by its members as an opportunity to introspect. “The task now is to transform the resolutions into workable policy,” said Magashule Last month, the National Assembly passed a motion to set up a committee that would consider a possible constitutional amendment that would allow for expropriation without compensation Jeff Radebe, the ANC’s head of policy said the organisation will organise workshops and consultations with all South Africans on the practical steps the ruling party would take to implement its conference resolution on land expropriation and agrarian reform. “At a ANC NEC meeting, we also considered the practical steps to give effect to our conference resolution on land expropriation and agrarian reform. We will organise a workshop and consultations with all South Africans on these steps,” he said. Also, in a bid to dissuade aggrieved members from taking the party to court after losing elective conferences in power struggles, the party said it has appointed a team that deals specifically with internal disputes. Various provincial structures in KZN and the Free State have been disbanded after disgruntled members took the party to court. At the briefing, Magashule said the team would be led by deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte. “It has already been set up and members are now expected to refrain from seeing the courts as the first avenue for relief. The team includes national executive committee members Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, Siyabonga Cwele, Hlengiwe Mkhize and Alvin Botes,” he said. Furthermore, Magashule suggested that the ANC national executive committee, which met over the last weekend was of the view that it needed to establish a strengthened integrity committee which will have powers and a final say against members who are found to be in the wrong. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@africanews24-7.co.za