Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- The application to prevent the signing of 27 Independent Power Producers (IPP) deals by the Department of Energy has been struck off the roll. The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and TransformRSA had launched an interdict against the minister of energy, Jeff Hadebe to prevent him from signing the 27 IPP deals in the Pretoria High Court on Monday night. The application launched by Numsa and Transform RSA argued that the contracts would be economic suicide and would result in massive job losses. In addition, signing the IPPs would bankrupt Eskom. What the judgment essentially means is that there is now nothing in the law that prevents Eskom from signing the IPPs with the Department of Energy. Numsa, in court papers, stated that the implementation of the deal would lead to unemployment in the coal sector and will also result in the closure of several coal power stations. Adil Nchabaleng, the president of TransformRSA said he expected the judgment to be given against the people but would not be discouraged from pursuing the matter further as the cost of electricity is rising and Eskom called for a 33 percent increase in electricity tariffs recently. “It’s disappointing but we are not discouraged. How is it not urgent when the people are going to lose their jobs,” he asked. He has advised that Numsa and TransformRSA will brief its legal counsel to appeal the judgment, labelling it absurd. “We will study it thoroughly over the Easter weekend. We shall never bow to injustice and grand scale corporate looting, we lost the case on the basis of an urgency. The judge did not deal with the merits of the case which is why we still believe that we have a very strong case,” he said Nchabeleng has contended that the IPPs have not yielded the intended results even though more than R200 billion has already been ploughed into the sector through investment from Government. As things stand, the companies involved in this space are importing smart components at the expense of a very capable local industry with short-term, low-skilled, low margin opportunities. He further suggests that there is very little to no skills transfer happening and there is also very little job creation sector. He revealed that with the signing of the IPPs deal by Radebe, there is talk of a massive industrial retrenchment programme that is going to see tens of thousands of people losing their jobs. After a R200 billion investment, the industry is still importing components which means that the next two rounds of the REIPP programme are going to be redundant in the sense that there will be a very limited economic activity for workers and people seeking employment in the sector. Apart from the community development opportunities and the Black Economic Empowerment deals, there still needs to be a case for tangible results and how the effects are going to trickle down to ordinary people who need skills and jobs. According to Nchabeleng, the REIPPs are producing 5% of electricity while costing ESKOM over 30% of income that ESKOM makes from the sale of electricity. “Why should ESKOM pay more for electricity that they are selling for less at a loss. Eskom, after signing these 27 IPPs contracts will pass through the costs and losses over to consumers and the working class,” said Nchabeleng. He added that this was a regrettable judgment because ordinary workers, consumers, and citizens would suffer the implications of the court decision. “I don’t believe these projects have delivered as well as they could on the Radical Socio-Economic Development and Transformation objectives, especially in manufacturing and construction where so much more can be done. Even large EPC contracts are being awarded to international EPC companies while our own EPC companies are fighting for survival,” he says. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161