PRETORIA, March 7 – Caster Semenya will be out to break the oldest South African track and field record on Thursday when competes in the 1 000m at the Athletics Grand Prix meeting at Tuks. It was 35 years ago in 1983 in Bloemfontein when Ilze Wicksell won the 1 000m to set a new South African record by winning in a time of 2:37.2. The Olympic and World Champion makes no secret that she is dreaming for a long time to attempt the record, but there was never an opportunity for her to do so. It would be nice if Semenya succeeds as it would be classic scenario of one trailblazer in South African athletics taking over from another. Wicksell, who now works as a sports manager at TuksSport, was the first female athlete to dip under two minutes in the 800m proving that nothing is impossible if you put your mind to it. Semenya has taken 800m running to a whole new level not only improving the national record but dominating the event. She has been unbeaten for the last two years. Wicksell has no qualms about Semenya bringing to an end her legacy. “Records are there to be broken. I do not doubt that Caster is going to shatter my record and it is good. If records are broken it means our athletics is healthy.” There is slight chance that the weather could impact on the outcome of the race, as it might rain. However, the fact that Semenya will be challenged by the two Ugandan athletes, Winnie Nanyondo and Halimah Nakaayi, ought to ensure that the race will be run at a fast pace no matter what the weather conditions are. Semenya advised her rivals yesterday at a press conference to work with her to stick to the pre-agreed splits. “If we all hit it from the start the easier it will be for everyone. But if it is going to come down to a sprint you know what will happen,” said Semenya, hinting on her legendary acceleration skills towards the end of a race. Asked if it is a threat. Semenya just laughed and said she is just referring to what likely outcome could be if it is a slow race. The world record in the 1 000m was set by Svetlana Masterkova (Russia) in 1996 when she ran 2:28.98. According to Semenya, she has not set her sights on a world attempt. But then again when she in form and on speed nothing is impossible. As for her record attempt, Wicksell said she so nearly did not race as her dad passed away. He was one of her most loyal supporters always believing in her abilities no matter what happened out on the track. “Emotionally I was not up to racing, but a week before the race I realised that my father would have wanted me to run. The idea of running 1 000 metres was to level the playing field between Zola Budd and me.  I was a good 800m runner while she was competitive over 1 500m.” As expected it was a tightly-contested race with Wicksell beating Budd by a mere 0.7 seconds. It was the only time the two of them officially raced each other. In later races, Wicksell acted as a pacemaker for Budd. – African News Agency (ANA)