ABIDJAN, IVORY COAST, March 9 (ANA/News-Decoder) – An attack by Islamist extremists on Burkina Faso’s capital earlier this month underscores growing security concerns in the West African country, which is increasingly a target for militant groups based in neighbouring Mali. Islamist militants launched the attack on Ouagadougou on 2 March, killing 16 people and wounding 80. A day later, a Mali-based al-Qaeda affiliate, Jama’a Nusrat ul-Islam wa al-Muslimin (JNIM), claimed responsibility for the attack. The third assault in the city since January 2016 has deepened already serious concerns over the security capabilities of the West African country, which has increasingly been targeted by militants based in Mali who justify the violence because of the country’s involvement in French-backed military offensives against them in the north of Mali. When JNIM claimed responsibility for the attack, they said that it was revenge for a February assault in Mali by French forces who had killed several senior militants in the group. Burkina’s involvement in a G5 Sahel force, which includes Mali, Chad, Niger and Mauritania, and is aimed at combatting jihadists in the region, has exposed the country to attacks. The G5 began operations in November 2017. Unlike previous attacks in the capital that hit soft targets like restaurants and cafes, the latest assault appeared much more sophisticated. It began at the French embassy, where four assailants armed with AK-47s attempted to break into the building but were thwarted by Burkinabe gendarmes and French soldiers. Almost simultaneously, another group of militants dressed in military uniforms drove a vehicle into the Burkinabe military headquarters. According to witnesses, the vehicle arrived through the back entrance to the compound. Once the assailants were inside, they opened fire and detonated their vehicle, laden with explosives. Authorities have since said they arrested two men thought to have been crucial to the planning of the attack. Investigations into the incident are ongoing. Security weaknesses Authorities have expressed concern that the militants could target the most heavily guarded area of Burkina Faso and infiltrate the military headquarters without facing resistance. The militants seemed to understand the ins and outs of the Burkinabe security apparatus. Some have suggested the military may have been involved in planning the attack. The car bomb was detonated near a room where a G5 Sahel meeting had been set to take place but which had been moved at the last minute. The timing of the attack suggests the militants might have been aware of the location and the time of the meeting. The possible complicity of the armed forces points to a wider problem in Burkina Faso. Since the collapse of the 27-year reign of Blaise Compaore in October 2014, the country has lacked a strong security force. Compaore had developed a powerful presidential guard, known as the Régiment de Sécurité Présidentielle (RSP), mainly to protect himself. But following an attempted coup against the transitional government in September 2015 by the RSP, there has been a significant security reshuffle. The reshuffle has aimed to make the military more efficient and transparent, but many well-qualified, long-standing officials, loyal to the previous regime and with good contacts throughout the region, have been removed. Most of the forces now patrolling in Ouagadougou and beyond have no such clout or experience – a blow both to military strength and intelligence gathering. Complicity on the part of the armed forces could also indicate the Burkinabe military has not yet been rebuilt and that it is still struggling from divisions and disloyalty to the new government, not least from those close to the RSP. There is some limited evidence of coordination between the RSP and an Islamist militant group operating in the north of Burkina Faso. Local media reported in March that members of the RSP were cooperating with Ansar-ul Islam, a Burkina-based jihadist group that has links to JNIM. Government intelligence services said communications between a former member of the RSP and Anar-ul Islam’s leader had been intercepted in January 2017. The Compaore factor While in power, Compaore established himself within the region as a mediator with militant groups and disgruntled governments. He was often credited with negotiating the release of kidnap victims, and it is possible that his involvement provided a buffer against militant attacks on Burkinabe territory. Some point to his demise and a sudden shift to a policy of overt counter-terrorism as triggering increased violence against Burkina Faso since 2014. Indeed, JNIM said in its statement of responsibility that Burkina Faso would do well to return to Compaore’s policies of neutrality towards Islamist extremist groups in Mali. Ironically, the ouster of Compaore, regarded by many as a dictator, was widely seen as a victory for democracy and an opportunity to alter Burkina Faso’s trajectory. Without Compaore, Burkina is now suffering from increasing levels of jihadist violence that could impede changes Burkinabes so desperately sought when they took to the streets to remove him just four years ago. – African News Agency (ANA)/News-Decoder