Sello Theletsane JOHANNESBURG- The Patriotic Alliance(PA) in the Nelson Mandela Bay has taken a decision to withdraw from the shared legal action brought by the Democratic Alliance, Congress of the People and the African Christian Democratic Party against the council meeting last month that saw the ousting of Athol Trollip and the formerly governing coalition, of which the PA was part. On August 31, three days after Trollip was ousted, the DA and its coalition partners COPE, the ACDP and the PA lodged the court application, asking for an urgent review of the decision. The matter is set to be heard today. Trollip was removed through a motion of no confidence and his nemesis from the UDM, former deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani was elected mayor, with no DA councillors nor any of its coalition partners present, bar Victor Manyati. Now the PA says it initially supported the action on the basis of legal opinion sought by the DA but has subsequently reconsidered its position. In a statement, PA councillor Marlon Daniels said: “In our analysis, the motion of no confidence played out in an unfortunate manner, particularly for the DA, but we no longer feel there is a strong enough basis to challenge it, either in law or from a political perspective.” Daniels said the new coalition government under Mayor Mongameli Bobani was now in power and needed to be given a chance to prove itself. “The reality is that the PA always expressed its concerns about the provision of services to the poor in Nelson Mandela Bay. Our people continue to suffer under the scourge of crime (as exemplified by the latest crime stats, which were damning about our metro), poverty, unemployment and lack of services,” Daniels said. “Mayor Bobani has made big promises that his administration will be working to rectify this situation and improve the city. We hope our action of accepting the new government will bring much-needed peace for the people of the metro.” Daniels added: “In our view, the many complaints regarding the old coalition from the black caucus parties and the threats from certain sections of the community to withhold their rate payments were not entirely without basis. What has particularly left a bad taste in the mouth is the comments of some politicians and residents in the metro in reaction to Mayor Bobani taking over that can’t be described as normal critique. It has racist overtones and suggests the view that black people can’t govern. As the PA, we reject this. The PA exists for the people, not for the benefit of other political parties.” Daniels said the PA would take its place in council as a member of the opposition and would work to make its contribution “as constructive as possible and to keep the new government accountable to the people”. “We would encourage all parties to give the new administration space and to also work to hold them accountable. Finally, we encourage the DA to get its house in order. They are facing a mutiny. We could not go to war with an army that disregards its own commanders.”