Staff Reporter The African National Congress (ANC) in Nelson Mandela Bay has on Tuesday said that it denounce and flatly reject the disgraceful, intolerant and immature behaviour of rude DA Councillors led by Ngaba Banga during the council meeting at Woolboard Conference Centre. At a press conference after the chaotic meeting, ANC Chief Whip Bicks Ndoni said that the DA were again showing disrespect for the law. Ndoni said that subsequent to the high court judgment, the DA had not provided any correspondence to the City Manager’s Office, showing that the processes against Victor Manyati had been finalised. “We find this behaviour extremely unacceptable and view it with the utmost disdain. This kind of behaviour is a regrettable sign of the immature and scatterbrain nature of this organization .The unbecoming conduct and hooliganism by the right-wing DA and its attempt to turn Council meeting into a stag for political theatricals is a betrayal and embarrassment to the ordinary voters who elected them to represent their interests in Council.” “Manyati is a councillor and will continue to be a councillor until that disciplinary process is concluded. There is nothing in the municipal manager’s office to say this is what has happened. We are not debating a political matter here, this is a legal matter. You have not followed processes of justice and fairness Mr DA and therefore your constitution says follow that. It’s a directive from the court,” said Ndoni. The ANC has further commended the Speaker of Council (Councillor Buyelwa Mafaya) for her firmness in disallowing the DA to make Council unworkable. “The insult by some childish DA Councillors who pointed the Speaker of Council with middle fingers must be addressed as a matter of urgency.” The ANC concluded that it will write to the Office of the Speaker to request an urgent investigation into this matte and ensure that those responsible DA councillors are held accountable. The Special Council meeting was called to consider three items including allegations of misconduct against the City Manager. The meeting was adjourned and is expected to reconvene on Thursday.