Sello Theletsane JOHANNESBURG- The Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) on Sunday, called on President Ramaphosa to establish a judicial commission, with full investigating powers, in order to investigate the serious allegations with regards to Bosasa and African Global Operations. This comes after the Deputy Minister of Correctional Services, Thabang Makwetla, admitted to having received one million Rand bribe in cash and kept for a whole six weeks before he had done anything about it. “It is important to note that Makwetla saw it fit to reveal this sordid one million Rand bribe affair, only after he was fingered to have been the benefactor of a top class security system having been installed free of charge at his private residence by African Global Operations, and paid for (again in cash) by Bosasa. The Deputy Minister’s protestations that he kept on asking for an invoice rings hollow. He seems to have gone through the motions of asking for the invoice as a cover, but never received one, and actually never paid a cent. One comes to the inevitable conclusion that he was only too happy not to have to been presented with an invoice. If it was really his intention to pay he would have found a way. In reality, there was no will, and thus no way was found either,” said MKMVA. “Evidently the allegations against Deputy Minster Makwetla are serious, and his very late ‘confession’, under pressure to pre-empt exposure, about having received a bribe, do not make matters any better, but actually worse. Makwetla should therefore with immediate effect following the example of ANC MP, Vincent Smith, who in the face of allegations of impropriety and possible bribing by Bosasa stepped aside from chairing three parliamentary committees, and also step aside from all government duties that he is currently being deployed to by the ANC. Obviously, this must also include his position as Deputy Minister. Over and above any legal charges that Makwetla may face (or ultimately end up facing), he is also compelled to present himself to the Integrity Committee of the ANC. This is in line with the relevant Resolution that was taken by the 54th National Conference of the ANC regarding matters of this nature. Evidently, as a senior member of the ANC, it is not only Makwetla’s reputation and integrity that is at stake here but also the reputation and integrity of the ANC,”. According to the MKMVA, any impression that the establishment of judicial commissions to investigate these matters could be selective in order to target certain politicians, and let others off the hook, in pursuance of certain political interests and agendas must be avoided at all costs. “In the same vein, we are compelled to add today that our President’s continuing silence, as well as the ANC’s continuing official silence, about this serious matter of Deputy Minister Makwetla, and all the other serious matters of alleged Bosasa corruption related to it, is very unfortunate indeed, It only serves to further create and strengthen the impression of selective morality, outrage, and legal action concerning allegations of fraud and corruption in order to target certain politicians in the pursuance of certain political interests and agendas. If this continues it will certainly not bode well for the future, and for the pursuance of fairness and unity in the ANC,” said the MKMVA. The members of MKMVA, as the liberation fighters of Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK), have dedicated their lives to the full liberation of the people, and will continue to be in the front line of fighting for justice for all our people, without fear or favour. According to the MKMVA, anything less will be a betrayal of the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military (MK) Code, to which we all pledged our loyalty to. (In fact in the context of this statement it will be amiss of us not to remind comrade Thabang Makwetla that he too, as a member of MK, pledged his loyalty to that very Code). 