Sello Theletsane JOHANNESBURG- The threat of land expropriation which has instilled fear among white farmers has culminated in one farmer going so far as to issue death threats to President Cyril Ramaphosa and EFF leader Julius Malema if his farm is expropriated. It is a known fact that white farmers in South Africa have vowed to retaliate if the land is to be expropriated without compensation. In the video, Reon van Tonder speaking in Afrikaans ( English translation) says: “Guys, this selfie-thing is a ‘bodder’(nuisance). Now on top of it a selfie-video. Yes, it is difficult for me. But I feel that I must also say something… I want to address this video to ‘honorable’ Ramaphosa and ‘honorable’ Malema. … I do not speak English, if you do not understand me, get for yourself one of your bloody translators, so that he can translate it for you. It is about this thing of yours about the expropriation of farms and property without compensation,” van Tonder said. “I have property, yes, and a farm yes. It is in the market, and you can come and buy it any time… Farming is not so nice/easy as it may look. You can buy my farm, and I can go and stay in a house at the sea. But little Malema and little Ramaphosa do not think about taking from me it without compensation. My hair is grey, my beard is white. I have had my time. I spoke to my family. I have taken a decision. If you take my farm I am not going to sit quietly,”. “I have been a cattle farmer for a number of years. I know what a cow does when you chase her with a horse and she becomes tired. That cow turns around Malema, you killer of Boere, and jumps right underneath the horse, and you with your fat ass will have to know how to keep sitting. You are busy chasing me, chasing me, and I am busy getting tired… And not only me ‘ honorable members’, no, not only me… I want to state it clearly, I will not go and shoot a few innocent people in the park. It is not my style, it does not suit me, but Malema, Ramaphosa you who are in control. I have been a cattle farmer for a number of years. I know what a cow does when you chase her with a horse and she becomes tired. That cow turns around Malema, you killer of Boere, and jumps right underneath the horse, and you with your fat a** will have to know how to keep sitting. You are busy chasing me, chasing me, and I am busy getting tired… And not only me ‘ honorable members’, no, not only me… I want to state it clearly, I will not go and shoot a few innocent people in the park. It is not my style, it does not suit me, but Malema, Ramaphosa you who are in control,”. “The two of you, who are according to me totally in cahoots with each other, the two of you will have to pay the price. If I have very good advice for you, and you want to take my farm, you will have to take me out first, because I am not going to let go. I have taken my decision,”. Reon van Tonder goes on to issue insults and a decree in the video that he is indeed ready to go and meet his creator, all in protection of his land and that he does not ‘in his own words’ worship ‘a fake God of Babylon or ‘ancestor spirit’. “I worship the Creator of heaven and earth. Not a fake God of Babylon, or an ‘ancestor spirit’, my things are right. I have worked it out Malema. I do not know if you now understand what the Boer is saying. These are deep things. It is not just standing and shouting on a stage to excite people. I, Reon van Tonder, am ready to go (meaning to die). I am ready to meet my creator. But where you (Malema), and Ramaphosa will go to I do not know. Be careful, be careful, if I go (die) I will take you (probably) with.” All this comes after Ramaphosa confirmed in July, that the ANC-led government would pass an amendment to the country’s constitution to allow the seizure of white-owned farmland without compensation. Organizations such as AfriForum and COPE joined forces a few weeks ago to fight expropriation of land without compensation. See Reon van Tonder’s video below: