Ayanda Mdluli After being removed as premier earlier this year following a series of what appeared to be well orchestrated protests aimed at destabilizing the North West region, Supra Mahaumapelo has found his way back into the swing of things as a member of the 32 member Provincial Task Team (PTT) that has been appointed to strengthen the ANC and enhance its capacity to meet its mandate and cling to political power in the province. The task-team is scheduled to lead the North West province into the 2019 national election, which is set to go down in history as toughest election for the ruling party post 1994. The task team largely consists of opposing factions within the province as it includes individuals who were said to be side-lined by Mahuamapelo while he served a premier and chair of the province. On closer inspection of the list, it appears, after removing Mahaumapelo as premier, ANC leadership structures have resorted to a ‘get along or get out’ approach as different warring factions within the ruling party have been plonked into one big melting pot to contest next year’s elections which will be fiercely contested in the province. Ace Magashule, the ANC’s Secretary General said the party agreed to set up an inclusive Provincial Task Team that will be seized with the task of uniting the organization and positioning it an effective leader of society. Job Mokgoro, the current Premier of the Province was appointed as the task team’s convenor, raising further questions about the party’s ability contest the elections with as it will be faced by an overwhelmingly younger and vibrant opposition who resonate more with the youth and the age demographics of the province and the country as a whole. Mokgoro will also assume political leadership of the task team. “The National Working Committee (NWC) was mandated to finalise the rest of the PTT.  The NWC has therefore finalised the matter and a total of 32 members, composed of 16 males and 16 females, in line with the ANC policy on gender representation have been appointed,” said Magashule. Responding to a question from Africa News 24-7, Magashule explained that the party was concerned about the up coming elections, which prompted an intervention that would see all opposing leaders within the party come together to put their differences aside for the greater good in a province where the party has been in decline at the polls over the last six to seven years. The Task Team will be reinforced by eight members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) who include Obed Bapela, Bathabile Dlamini, Sylvia Lucas, Zoleka Capa-Langa, Violet Siwela, Nkenke Kekana, Malusi Gigaba and Nkhensani Kubayi-Ngubane. The task team is expected to work with all structures of the ANC, including alliance partners, in guiding the provincial government and in building a potent electioneering machinery going into 2019. According to Magashule the PTT will foster unity and renewal of the organisation as resolved by NASREC Conference to end all factions, known and identified and correct all the organisational and political challenges the ANC faces in the North West as well as deal with governance challenges. The PTT will also ensure that deployees of the ANC in government strictly adhere to organisational discipline and utilize the state to implement our manifesto and advance the NDR objectives of unity, democracy, non-racialism, non-sexism and prosperity. It will also restore the integrity and supremacy of the ANC constitution in all our political and organisational work  and marshal all the provincial structures towards maintaining a respectful appreciation of organisational discipline, democratic centralism and adhering to the due processes as per our Constitutional provisions,” said Magashule.