Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- Confirmed reports have emerged that Transnet CEO Siyabonga Gama has been fired from Transnet after an “irretrievable break down in trust” between himself and the board that was recently appointed by Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan. According to the Mail & Guardian, quoting a well-placed source, Gama was fired from his position on Thursday afternoon. Transnet has since issued a statement of the confirmation of the reports saying: ” The Board of Transnet has today served Siyabonga Gama with a letter informing him of the Board’s intention to terminate his employment as Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO) of Transnet SOC Ltd. The reasons provided to him by the Board relating to alleged serious violations of his financial, procurement and fiduciary responsibilities as Transnet GCEO. As a result, the Board had lost trust and confidence in Gama’s ability to lead Transnet as GCEO. The statement further goes on to say that the Minister of Public Enterprises, Pravin Gordhan, has also been informed of the Board’s decision and Gama has been given ten days to submit a written representation as to why his appointment as GCEO should not be terminated. In August, Gama fought tooth and nail to keep his job at the state-owned entity. In a damning affidavit to the chairman of the board Popo Molefe at Transnet last month, Gama gave reasons why he should not be placed on suspension following a set of recommendations from the following firms: Werksmans Attorneys, Mncedisi Ndlovu & Sedumedi Attorneys (MNS) and Fundudzi Forensic Investigators. Investigations from these entities allege that Gama, head of procurement Thamsanqa Jiyane and supply chain manager Lindiwe Mdlesthe engaged in improper conduct and on Wednesday recommended that they are placed on precautionary suspension. The three are also alleged to have violated the Public Finance Management Act, serious breaches of statutes, regulations and corporate governance and unlawful conduct in the R38billion procurement of 1064 diesel and electric locomotives. Documents seen by Africa News 24-7 shows Gama questioning the criteria and authenticity of the investigative reports, particularly by MNS and Fundudzi. The story continues