Staff Reporter The BBC has published a thread on its Twitter profile outlining not only a heartbreaking and shocking story of soldiers who blindfolded and murdered women and babies in cold blood – all filmed – but it has chronicled an incredible journey of investigative journalism. In July a shocking video went viral, of soldiers appearing to be Cameroonian soldiers walking a few women down a dusty road, blindfolded, one with a baby on her back, before making them kneel and then firing automatic fire into their bodies, killing them. The Cameroon government immediately responded, calling the incident fake news. In the era of fake news, it is difficult to tell what is real and what isn’t. The Cameroon government vehemently denied that it was Cameroon’s soldiers, and claimed that it was from Mali. BBC Africa Eye decided to investigate the episode, which has culminated in a fascinating thread that chronicles how the news agency was able to verify the video, name the soldiers, and use analytics and special investigative skills to verify not only where the shooting took place, but what direction they were walking, the time of day, roughly when the shooting occurred and more. In the expose the news agency shows how it analyses countryside, google maps, voices and more. Putting together this investigation with input from various sources, the entire episode forced the Cameroon government to change its tact, and instead arrest and jail its own soldiers. The thread includes the official statements from the government of Cameroon. Below is the intriguing and shocking thread. It is a journey through the potential of social media and the processes that are followed in thorough investigative journalism, where no stone is left unturned. Warning, this thread contains very disturbing footage.  THREAD In July 2018, a horrifying video began to circulate on social media. 2 women & 2 young children are led away by a group of soldiers. They are blindfolded, forced to the ground, and shot 22 times. #BBCAfricaEye investigated this atrocity. This is what we found… pic.twitter.com/oFEYnTLT6z — BBC News Africa (@BBCAfrica) September 24, 2018 