JOHANNESBURG, September 12 – A firefighter who spoke during a memorial service of his three colleagues on Wednesday, said the conditions at Bank of Lisbon were undesirable and the building had no water which made it difficult for them to work. Mzukayise Zwane took to the podium during a memorial service of the fallen men and explained the difficulties they were faced with on September 5. Zwane said the building was old and nothing was working, but to show dedication his colleagues walked up until the 23rd floor to put out the fire. “My brothers deserve to be here today…When they got there, there was no water and it made it difficult for them to do their job.” Zwane said he was disappointed by the government, instead of focusing serious things they spend money on themselves. Simphiwe Moropane, 28, Khathutshelo Muedi, 37, and Mduduzi Ndlovu, 40, lost their lives as they battled the blaze at the bank of Lisbon Building. They had rushed there after a fire broke out on the 23rd floor. It’s believed Moropane was the first to die after he slipped out of the window of the 23rd floor building. It is believed that he had run out of oxygen and had gone to the ledge to try to get air. The other two men died of smoke inhalation. Their memorial service was held at Ellis Park Arena in Johannesburg. Hundreds of firefighters, Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD) and South African Police Service (SAPS) officials joined family members to celebrate the lives of the men. The Bank of Lisbon building houses the Gauteng departments of health, human settlements, and cooperative government and traditional affairs. It has since been revealed that the building was only 21 percent compliant with occupational health and safety standards, as opposed to 85 percent, which was the norm. Simphiwe Sibiya another firefighter who spoke during the memorial service said the fire at the Bank of Lisbon Building would not have been so “heavy” if the building complied with the occupational health and safety standards. He said together with his colleagues, they managed to stop a fire at Premier David Makhura’s office because it complied. South African Federation of Trade Unions General Secretary Zwelinzima Vavi who was also part of the gathering said the fire could have been avoided and should have never happened “I have never ever seen anywhere government allowing people to work in a place where there is no fire extinguisher, where there is no water,” he said. Some firefighters held a banner inside the venue and demanded R4000 for danger allowance. The firefighters will be buried on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Hundreds of firefighters paid tribute to fallen heroes outside the bank of Lisbon Building in the Johannesburg CBD. Emergency services, Johannesburg Metro Police, family and friends gathered outside the building to commemorate Mduduzi Ndlovu, Khathutshelo Muedi and Simphiwe Moropana who died last week while battling a blaze in the Joburg CBD. Firefighters, wearing their uniforms, sang and comforted each other at the wreath-laying ceremony. Some of the victim’s family members were unable to contain their emotions when they arrived at the building where their loved ones lost their lives. Grieving relatives comforted each other, their wails piercing a sombre gospel tune played by a brass band. Gauteng Economic Freedom Fighter (EFF) Chairperson, Mandisa Mashego said both the Municipality and provincial government should be blamed for the deaths of the three firefighters. “We have opened the case of murder against MEC for human settlement, MEC for Health and Gauteng Premier,” said Mashego. Saftu general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi said what was making them angry was that the tragedy should never have happened. “This thing should have been avoided, how can the government allow people to work in a building that doesn’t have fire extinguisher and water,” said an angry  Vavi. A memorial service for the three fallen firefighters was underway at Ellis Park Arena. – African News Agency (ANA)