Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- As the country commemorated the assassination of struggle icon Chris Hani, the South African Communist Party (SACP) on Tuesday called for an inquiry into his death. Speaking at the memorial of the late Hani in Boksburg, SACP General Secretary Blade Nzimande told attendees that it was possible that more people had taken part in the assassination 25 years ago. “The SACP reiterates its call for an inquest into the assassination. The SACP has been actively present throughout the fight for complete justice to be seen to be done in this case. Given its magnitude, the two convicted murderers could not have been the only ones who were involved in planning, who had prior knowledge of, and who finally executed the coldblooded assassination,” Nzimande said. Yesterday marked 25 since Hani was gunned down outside his home in Boksburg on the East Rand on April 10, 1993. The stalwart was shot dead by a polish migrant Janusz Walus. The gun Walus used to commit the crime belonged to Clive Derby-Lewis. They were both given death sentences which were commuted to life imprisonment. Walus is serving his jail sentence. Derby-Lewis was realised from prison on medical parole in June 2015. He spent 22 years behind bars and died from lung cancer a year after his release. Nzimande said that Walus had never shown remorse for killing Hani. He said that they would not ensure that Walus would not be freed on parole. “Like his co-conspirator who died unrepentantly, Waluś remains unrepentant too. In one of his reports from prison, he makes it very clear that he still harbours his hatred for communists. This is what in the first place motivated him to take part in planning and carrying out the murder of Chris Hani,” he said. The Communist Party also said that it was concerned about reports which suggested that Walus citizenship might be revoked. “One of the recent developments that are worrying to the SACP are the real intentions behind the decision to revoke the murderer’s citizenship while he is still serving an effective prison sentence. The intentions, and how the decision came about, have not been publicly clarified. The decision first came to our attention at the Supreme Court of Appeal when the legal team representing the murderer presented it. It was suggested that his hatred for communists would not be an issue because he would leave to Poland since his South African citizenship had been revoked,” Nzimande said. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161