CAPE TOWN, April 9 (ANA) – Independent Media on Monday responded to critics, denying it was listing Sagarmatha Technologies on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange to settle its debt. Africa’s first multi-sided platform company, Sagarmatha Technologies, in which Sekunjalo Investments — owned by businessman Dr Iqbal Surve is the main shareholder — said last month it aimed to raise R7.5 billion in a private placement of up to 189 million shares. The anticipated market capitalisation of the company will be approximately R49.7 billion, based on more than 1.2 billion shares in issue at a placement price of R39.62 per private placement share. Investors will include Quantum Fund co-founder Jim Rogers and founder of United States investment bank Doley Securities Harold Doley. “Independent Media is actually ahead of its scheduled repayments to the PIC/GEPF [Public Investment Corporation], having already made a sizeable capital repayment early in the investment phase. It has also serviced interest payments to its other minority shareholder, Interacom, amounting to over R380 million,” a statement from Independent said. “Although there was no requirement to pay 50 percent of the loan until September 2018, Sekunjalo and Independent Media have accelerated repayments.” The company was responding to an article in the Daily Maverick (DM) and other publications claiming the listing was a “desperate attempt” to save Independent Media. The article in the DM claimed Independent was trying to find R864 million to repay 50 percent of the loans granted by the Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF) and a Chinese consortium which funded the acquisition of Independent Media. “The reality is that Independent Media has benefited at no cost to anyone else other than Sekunjalo who has solely invested in the modernisation of the business. It has moved from a legacy print business to an advanced content technology business that consistently wins global awards for its innovation,” the statement said. “The other reality is that all media houses are battling with declining revenues. That’s not a secret either. The difference here is that Independent Media has jumped on the super-galactic highway and has managed to re-engineer itself to take advantage of technology and the fourth industrial revolution.  Should that not be lauded?” The Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) has granted Sagarmatha Technologies approval for a listing of up to 1,214,718,441 shares in the media sector on its main board. On Friday, Sagarmatha announced that its private placement had been pushed back on the request of private investors, and also said it would now list on the JSE on April 13 and not April 11. “The reason for the amendments to the salient dates and times relating to the listing is due to a request from potential investors to extend the closing date of the private placement,” it said in a statement. The company said it would announce results of the private placement on Wednesday, April 11. It currently owns 95 percent of African News Agency, 83.3 percent of general merchandise online retailer Loot, 60 percent of IOL Property JV, an online classifieds business specialising in property and fully owns online news business Independent Online as well as Sagarmatha Enterprise Solutions.