Clyde Ramalaine JOHANNESBURG- In less than 24 hours, President Jacob Zuma as formally summoned by the National Prosecuting Authority will for the first-time face charges framed in corruption, money laundering and racketeering claims. For the balance of the 13 years that this case is looming, it evidenced a deliberate campaign to deceive all with 783 charges. There was no attempt in the general media to ever rectify the blatant lies of 783 charges. As we approach the specified date, we have seen some strange if not extraordinarily obsessed behavior on the part of some to warn others who have determined to show support for President Zuma. The ANC informed its members that they may show support but not with ANC attire. This confusing attempt to stop ANC members from rocking up as they always have whenever one of its own appeared in court is rather interesting if not a sign of sheer paranoia. It seems the ANC has fallen hook line and sinker for the sophism that any support for Zuma translates to endorsing corruption. On the other hand, supporting President Zuma it seems does not make for good public relations since we are in an era where this practice means everything. We can appreciate that the ANC is deeply concerned about its performance to come 2019 and some in the ANC may have concluded any support for President Zuma automatically will lead to it bleeding further in severe loss come 2019. We have seen how the ANC and the EFF are gearing up to enter a new coalition pact predicated on that same fear of a 2019 loss. Notwithstanding that we must ask how ANC members, voters, cadres, and supporters can show support to its 12th president and leader who has served the movement with distinction for three-score years without sporting ANC gear. Is the ANC saying Zuma must be supported by individuals, not the ANC, if so why? There is also a developing narrative in our discourse that depicts those who support Zuma as equally corrupt, and beneficiaries of the proceeds of crime. Apparent crimes committed under the hitherto hokum claim of state capture as peddled. It appears the intention is to render support for Zuma as divorced from the ANC and secondly as from those who are corrupt. Nothing can be further from the truth, and supporters cannot be intimidated by threats of labelling or disciplinary action. As if that was not enough, the new Police Minister Bheki Cele is at pains to warn supporters while seeing something sinister in this natural support. He warned ANC supporters with the following words “Nobody owns the ANC. If you commit crimes you must face the charges without calling the ANC to defend you as if when you were stealing you were doing it for the ANC, while you were stealing for yourself and your children”. The statement by Cele, of course, can only be understood in the factional context of an ANC organization that continues to struggle to give effect to unity despite its unequivocal 54th Conference call. Cele in his own blindness or preferred lack of understanding denies Zuma the basic right of innocence until proven guilty in a court of law. Cele also seemingly presides over the infrastructure and capacity to know Zuma is guilty and has therefore concluded on that. He, therefore, invokes the ANC as sharing his personal views when he denies Zuma supporters that same right. Cele has in an arbitrarily sense already concluded on the guilt of Zuma from where he shouts these warnings, we not sure if he does so as anti – Zumaist, NEC member or as Police Minister. Any support for Jacob Zuma is support for a tried and tested leader, it is not supported for a villain or an ANC defiant soul as we are made to believe in this season. Perhaps we must remind those who seemingly forget why many will be supporting President Zuma tomorrow and always. We need not bore them with the uncontested 60 years of selfless service and leadership. We can briefly reflect on more recent things because the past of him serving as a freedom fighter, the crucial role he played in stabilizing a very violent and volatile Kwa-Zulu Natal, the fundamental elements of his ANC and SA leadership speak for themselves. We know his foresight and leadership restored life expectancy back to 59 years from a paltry 49 under an HIV/ AIDS denialist predecessor. There are those who support him for this and many other positive things his administration delivered on. We are supporting President Jacob G. Zuma not in any personality cult sense, but for the basic facts that he was elected to lead the ANC for both 2007 and 2012 conferences.  He equally was elected by South Africans in both 2009 and 2014 subsequently with respective 65,9% and 62.15% majority of the voting population. Therefore, the subject of confidence in him to lead is underscored in these four instances. These facts regardless of how discomforting to some remain indisputable and cannot be sanitized. Some will support him for that, and they will show up at court because of this. These charges, drummed up or real, against president Zuma are not new, they were there from before he became both ANC and SA president for the respective two terms.  It is possible that come the hour a court soberly interested in law and justice and not venturing into the factional politics of the ANC and SA, will ultimately show the significant blunders of the National Prosecuting Authority and its NDPP’s from Ngcuka, including Mpshe to an Abrahams cacophony of politically inspired decisions as having compromised the fairness of a trial. Let us not forget Mama Winnie Mandela for all these years stood accused of murdering Stompie Seipei when it was a Jerry Richardson who for a R30000.00 price paid by the apartheid system. Today all of sudden everyone wants to acknowledge Mama Winnie’s innocence, so Jacob Zuma has for more than a decade stood accused. We must remind those who in the political expedient sense want to conveniently divorce President Zuma today from the ANC that he completed his ANC two terms and nowhere has any ANC Conference ever called upon him to resign as ANC president. The masses that support him know this. Maybe we must again remind those who have concluded on his guilt, President Zuma opted not to run for a third term as ANC president, in selflessness he afforded the candidates to contest without him as a possible candidate. We know what happened in 2007 when Mbeki opted to stand and what damage that decision and subsequent actions had on the ANC. Shall we remind the ANC and a Minister Cele, President Zuma was forced into resignation as SA president and denied completing the 5th administration, a period we still dealing with, by the NEC of the 54th Conference and not South Africa at large? No claim of South Africa wanted Zuma out can stand anywhere as an irrefutable claim. We dare not be misled by white-led marches and the work of high-heeled, deep-pocketed pseudo-civil society formations whose singular role was Zuma’s removal, the same that ultimately convinced some in the ANC to get rid of Zuma, for the masses of SA.  The masses know this and will show their support as they always have done. President Zuma, resigned not on his own accord but as forced by the ANC NEC despite the fact that his successor consciously reneged on a transition agreement when he became a victim of a CR17 hardliner stance, whose fundamental obsession was to get their candidate as soon as possible into Mahlamba Ndlopfu. It’s that same paranoia that in this season inspires the threats against those who have declared their support to an ANC leader notwithstanding charges. The masses know+ this too and will continue supporting Zuma because they know what happened post-December 2017 until February 14, 2018. President Zuma after his resignation continues free from political grudge and bitterness to show his mature stature of leadership and ANC values in attending a farewell organized by his successor, he equally availed himself to volunteer to work for the ANC and its election strategy abiding by the decisions of the NEC.  The masses have seen this and know this too, they will, therefore, continue to support a cadre, leader, and president who has humbled himself and continue to serve and did not become angry and refused to work with the ANC leadership as we have seen in another epoch. Supporting President Jacob Zuma in this season remains supporting a tried and tested ANC and SA and African leader who had served and continues to serve the ANC with distinction. Not supporting him would be an indictment to the values of the African National Congress. It appears some have convinced themselves not supporting President Jacob Zuma confirms their newfound anti-corruption identity. In their understanding not supporting Jacob Zuma will give the ANC automatic political mileage with the farcical claim of white support who has determined black leadership corrupt. The latter sounds like the advice form public relations consultants. The masses will support President Zuma because as true democrats he remains innocent until proven guilty by a court of law. May I submit even in the event of him being found guilty – the masses understood in ANC supporters may be very sympathetic towards him.