Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG – A dangerous trend in the social media space in South Africa is manifesting and it is getting bolder and bolder every day. Since the death of ANC stalwart and struggle heroine Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, every single positive post about her on social media has been countered with malicious fake lies, blatant racism and derogatory remarks. Most of these lies are centered around the death of teenager Stompie Seipei’s murder during the apartheid era. New details have emerged that Madikizela-Mandela had nothing to do with Seipei’s murder and that the ANC-led government at the time was in cahoots with apartheid agents in order to destroy Madikizela-Mandela and throw her in prison for a crime she did not commit. The evidence fingers former member of the Mandela Football Club and police informer Jerry Richardson was the one who killed Seipei. Hank Heslinga, a member of the Soweto Police Squad between 1985 and 1993 revealed in a video interview that in 1994 he received a phone call from the commissioner of the South African Police service that Sidney Mufamadi, who was then the minister of safety and security, wanted to see him. “He told us that he was a member of the National Executive Committee of the ANC and that we must start an investigation into all the cases against Winnie Mandela and start from Stompie Seipei and right through and try to get some evidence to charge Winnie with murder,” says Heslinga. He continued to explain: “I think there was political motivation behind him because the minister is the political head of the police and I thought the ANC, through Sidney Mufamadi was behind the request to reinvestigate Winnie Mandela. So, we started this whole investigation. We went to Jerry Richardson in prison. He was serving a life sentence for the killing of Stompie Seipe. And there he told me Stompie found out he was a registered informer of the of the Security Branch in Soweto. So he killed Stompie Seipei to cover his own tracks and said Winnie Mandela must never find out that he was a registered informer.” Watch the video clip here: Meanwhile, many white South Africans, a significant number of whom are believers and perpetrators of the racist fake news propaganda machine about white genocide in South Africa, are spreading lies about the legacy of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. INTRODUCING @Dakeb_MCFC who just insulted @winniemandela a struggle icon ?? Make Him Famous. @ManCity FAN!@CyrilRamaphosa @MbalulaFikile @EFFSouthAfrica @Julius_S_Malema @eNCA @BBC @cnnbrk @ANCParliament #WinnieMandela #WinnieMadikizela @SABCNewsOnline @carteblanchetv @MYANC pic.twitter.com/3tAzEYwcn5 — BATI?????? (@Bati_Zo) April 2, 2018  Winnie Mandela was an evil bitch who advocated and joined in the burning to death of opposition. https://t.co/VHZV1inuvM — Gordon rennie (@Gordonrennie6) April 2, 2018  Many white people in South Africa, through this racist propaganda machine, are continuously refusing to acknowledge apartheid as a sin against black people and are refusing to reconcile and transform. In this unprecedented move at Africa News 24-7, we feel that it is time to set the record straight and be a voice and narrative that aims to defend the integrity of our democracy, history and struggle heroes’ and heroines. The media industry in South Africa, which is coincidentally skewed towards white ownership is relatively silent on this imminent threat to our democracy and national security. Only a select few publications such as the Mail & Guardian and the African Times have ever dared to counter this narrative. However, these platforms are just simply not enough in an age where controlling the digital space is key to changing perceptions. It is an indisputable fact that a large portion of white South Africa is on propaganda overdrive trying to incite a civil war and economic collapse of the black ANC led government. This is evidenced by the rise of fake news online platforms that have taken center stage on YouTube, Twitter, Facebook and the internet which is spreading lies about a white genocide in the country.  These platforms have hundreds and thousands of readers and views and are fast becoming a threat to our national security. Yet, our government is doing nothing about it. There is not even an acknowledgment or press briefing that has been called by our ANC led government to dispel the lies. Apart from Lindiwe Sisulu engaging Australia on the issuing of Visas for farmers, there has been nothing from the government that speaks on how to deal with this threat to our freedom and sovereignty. Our president, Mr. Cyril Ramaphosa is happily taking selfies with the very same propagators of this dangerous narrative. Going back to the eighties, the apartheid regime embarked on a blatant propaganda campaign that aimed to demonize Madikizela-Mandela. The information is out there for all to see how apartheid operatives confessed to propagating toxic narratives about Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. The Huffington Post SA released an interview between Madikizela-Mandela and filmmaker Pascal Lamche where she revealed some crucial details about Seipei’s murder. The Media24 owned platform goes to state that “some of the negative responses on social media to the death of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela show that many people worldwide – and some white South Africans in particular – still consider her “the killer of Stompie Seipei” in January 1989.” Huffington Post goes on to corroborate the fact that the apartheid government had an extremely effective propaganda machine. Seipei was not murdered by Madikizela Mandela, but he was murdered by Jerry Richardson who was a double agent working for the partied state at the time. In her interview with Madikizela-Mandela, Lamche reveals that Richardson was paid for the murder of the 14-year-old activist while in prison. It is widely believed that this heinous act was committed to “neutralize her politically”. Huffington Post SA further reveals that although Madikizela-Mandela was convicted of kidnapping Seipei, she successfully appealed a six-year sentence for the crime. This sentence was then reduced to a fine and two-year suspended sentence. She has always vehemently denied that she was involved in his death. It therefore renders disbelief that a woman who was willing to die for her country and her people would be considered as the mastermind of the murder of a fourteen-year-old black boy. How a woman, who was a caring mother and loving wife that kept the name of her husband alive for 27 years was demonized to such an extent is indicative of the spinelessness of the apartheid state. Apartheid agents were truly black snakes in the grass, and this blatant propaganda has continued to brainwash white South Africans 25 years into our democracy. Never in our time has there been such a dedicated heroine to our struggle as black people in South Africa. Her swagger said it all. This was a woman who was the embodiment of black power and black resistance to white supremacy. Not only was Madikizela-Mandela ready to kill for her freedom. She was also ready to die for it. Which makes one wonder about the state of the black psyche in the current South African context. Apart from the spreading of swaart gevaar like propaganda in our social media spaces, South Africans, particularly black South Africans need to educate themselves more and strive to counter a narrative that aims to paint us as violent and corrupt demagogues in our own land. @AyandaMdluli28
 ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161