Clyde Ramalaine JOHANNESBURG- The mother of the Nation, Winnie Nomzamo Madikizela-Mandela was laid to rest this past Saturday after an official period of mourning. Hardly 48 hours later former Police Minister Sydney Mufamadi held a press conference at the St. Georges Cathedral in Cape Town. Mufamadi’s press conference emanates from him being named in the now famous ‘WINNIE ‘documentary. Mufamadi according to the documentary is fingered as the one to have instructed the re-opening of charges against Winnie Mandela through the facilitation of George Fivas the then police commissioner. Mufamadi with this press statement sought to set the record straight. The reality is, the release of the documentary has painted some leaders in the ANC and clergy associated with the liberation struggle as questionable for their equal roles in the discrediting Madikizela-Mandela which was always an apartheid Stratcom project. We know this less because Malema, sought to steal the thunder, but since Zenani Mandela-Dlamini shared with us the betrayal her mother suffered. Perhaps we must at the start make it clear that the documentary, a book, article or opinion piece is a reflection of someone’s perspective. Views on Mufamadi’s press conference remain divergent, on the one hand some regard his statement as having set the record straight, while others feel it was a poor attempt to disown his role when he sought to shift blame to the then Democratic Party Leader Tony Leon as the one to have engineered the investigation on Winnie and not him. However, to his credit, Mufamadi did throw the spotlight back on how the apartheid disinformation campaign operated. Remember in the period of mourning the information of the disinformation campaign against Madikizela-Mandela re-surfaced and the documentary with its interviews of key apartheid operatives proved crucial. We shared in another piece the things we learned from within the week of mourning. Having had the opportunity of a formal response from Mufamadi we now attempt making sense of the claims on both sides, meaning Lamche and Mufamadi. An attempt at making sense of the documentary in regards to the claims leveled and Mufamadi’s response at this stage is best summarised with more questions than answers, the same we herewith raise to those involved. Questions to Lamche Questions to Mufamadi If the WINNIE documentary and its subsequent responses raise questions that Lamche is yet to explain it by the same token do so of Mufamadi’s two-hour long counter press statement. South Africans sit today with WINNIE the documentary produced by a foreigner and the press statement of the then Police Minister Sydney Mufamadi or as he was known in Soweto in his earlier days, Comrade Jomo as the means to assess the role of the apartheid state and possible complicity of some in the liberation struggle structures who did not approve of Winnie Mandela in her role. Madikizela-Mandela’s death and mourning and the accompanying revelations present a moment of pensive reflection. It bemoans the fact that the liberation struggle accounts are often if not always told by external people. It also leaves us with the reality that it divides South Africans in many ways for it appears the truth has many sides. We ultimately may never find all the answers and therefore the suspicions may linger much longer than we anticipate. Are we to reject with contempt apartheid’s henchmen even when they confess as always lying and continuing to deceive, is that what we must believe? Are we to uncritically believe the liberation struggle leaders and comrades as always telling the truth, only because they were in the struggle? Or is the truth a meshed reality?