Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- Tributes from the former head of states, civil society and Trade Unions celebrating struggle stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s life continued to pour in after news of her death on Monday afternoon. Former South African President Jacob Zuma sent his condolences to the Mandela Family yesterday. Commenting on the passing of the struggle heroine, Zuma said she fought bravely for most of her life for the liberation of South Africa. “She fought bravely and became a symbol of the resilience and fighting spirit of our people, in the face of extreme provocation and subjugation by the racist apartheid state. Despite torture, banishment and persecution, Winnie Mandela stood firm and resolute in ensuring that the struggle continued until a victory was won. We salute her for her tireless and unwavering commitment to the freedom of her people and their liberation from racism and bondage. We extend our deepest condolences to the family at this difficult time. May her soul rest in peace,” said Zuma. Madikizela-Mandela was an MP as well as the first lady from 1994 to 1996 when she and Nelson Mandela, democratic South Africa’s founding father, divorced. She is survived by her and Mandela’s two daughters, Zindziswa Mandela-Hlongwane and Zenani Mandela, as well as several grandchildren. The former South African first lady was born in the village of Mbongweni, Bizana, in the Transkei. She died at the Netcare Milpark Hospital after suffering a long illness. Adil Nchabeleng, the president of TransformRSA said Mama Winnie Mandela will forever live in our hearts and as a symbol OF our liberation victory, we are filled with absolute gratitude for all that she was and all that she stood for as a liberator. “For her lifetime struggle and her immense contribution to our liberation. We are forever inspired by her living example, fortitude and resolve in the face of the enemy. She remains a lifetime icon of our lifelong incomplete liberation. As we continue the struggle we are reminded that the road ahead is still long and treacherous. The enemy never rests. But for this moment we will stop to honour her memory and contribution to the liberation struggle,” he said. Ace Magashule, the secretary general of the ANC, said the movement would lower its revolutionary banner in honour of the memory of Madikizela-Mandela. “She was loved and revered and her name will forever be inscribed in history as having played a formative role in the history of South Africa. Mama Winnie, as she was popularly known, would have celebrated the rich age of 82 years in September this year, but it was not meant to be. We mourn the passing of this great patriot and Pan Africanist, whose resilience and courage inspired freedom struggles not only in South Africa but across Africa and her diaspora,” said Magashule The Commonwealth Women Parliamentarians (CWP) Africa Region Steering Committee also paid tribute saying Madikizela-Mandela was amongst women legislators who, through their roles as freedom fighters and later as public representatives, dedicated her life to working tirelessly to better the lives of her people in her own country and globally. “She always sought to bring to the fore the lives of the poor, in particular, those in the informal settlement and rural areas. Honourable Madikizela-Mandela ensured that the voices of women are heard in the corridors of Parliament and legislatures. Her uncompromising commitment to women’s emancipation, as part of the struggle for liberation, inspired women in her country and the world,” said the organisation. In a statement, the National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (NEHAWU) said Madikizela-Mandela was a caring individual who dedicated her life to the betterment of others. Zola Saphetha, the secretary general of the organisation said she was the first black social worker at the Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital in Soweto after earning her degree in social work in 1956 despite severe restrictions on the education of blacks imposed by the apartheid regime. “It is worrying that 24 years into our nascent democracy that social workers are not earning decent salaries, they work in horrible conditions and have to face a huge workload because our government refuses to fill funded vacant posts,” he said. He added that her passing was a wound in the hearts and minds of South Africans of all race, class and gender as she played a crucial role in the defeat of apartheid. “She dedicated most of her life to the end of minority rule in South Africa and championed the ideals of the National Democratic Revolution. Mama Winnie fought gallantly for a non-racial, non-sexist and a prosperous South Africa. Even after her gallant fight the social ills imposed on our society by apartheid still remains prevalent,” said Saphetha. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161