NNESBURG, April 19 – A constable testifying in the trial of Sandile Mantsoe, who allegedly killed his ex-girlfriend Karabo Mokoena, told the Johannesburg High Court on Thursday that she heard the accused saying that he had to sacrifice her for his business to continue prospering. Helen Mahwete told the court: “He [Mantsoe] told the police about his forex business and that you need power for your business to succeed and he got his power when he and Karabo were brought together by someone called Master. “Because he and Karabo had broken up he needed to make a sacrifice for them to be separated. When I got closer one of the police said let’s leave, this boy is speaking nonsense.” Mahwete said she told Mantsoe that she found Mokoena’s body where he dumped it. “He told me that if I looked at Karabo on her shoulder, she had a cross that we did for the ritual, I never asked him if he had it too and I asked him how I could see it on Karabo because her body was burnt beyond recognition.” Mahwete said she read him his rights when she went to see him at the Sandton Police Station cells in the early hours of 11 May 2017. “He rubbed his eyes and wiped his face like someone who was crying and his eyes turned red, he then said I wouldn’t understand,” Mahwete told the court. “I asked him what I wouldn’t understand, and he said him and Karabo loved each other and he introduced her to someone named Master and they did a ritual to bring them together spiritually so they can have powers in business. “Mantsoe said when they were doing the ritual they were informed that they shouldn’t break up if they do one of them would have to do a sacrifice. He said he didn’t want to say if Master was a man or female because he didn’t want to get anyone into trouble. “He said Karabo also knew that the sacrifice had to be done and he didn’t want to explain what was done during the ritual. I asked him if Karabo would’ve been able to do the sacrifice and he said ‘aisaan’ [exclamation] then he said no. He said I looked too young to be a police officer and that he never thought I’d crack him like this. He then explained how he burnt Karabo.” She added that “Karabo stabbed herself and he [Mantsoe] mixed her blood with his for him to take to Master but he got arrested before the 14 days had lapsed because he had to take it before 14 days. He then asked me if it was obvious that he killed her and I said he should tell me.” The trial continues. – African News Agency (ANA)