Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema has called on the ruling party to rename the Cape Town International Airport after the late Winnie Madikizela-Mandela in honouring the role she played in the emancipation of South Africa. Addressing thousands of mourners at Winnie Madikizela- Mandela’s funeral at Orlando stadium in Soweto, Malema challenged the ANC to rename the airport after her. “If it is true that the ANC wants to honour you, let them name Cape Town Airport after Winnie Mandela,” he said. He told mourners that even though Madikizela-Mandela fought on behalf of many South Africans, the ANC turned its back on her. “Here, she lived in constant naked contact with danger, prepared to lose her life, even the life of her own children who were put into danger by her political activities. You trusted that your mission of putting the country first was embraced by an organization you loved but Mama,” Malema said. Malema said that he would ensure that Madkizela-Mandela’s children would not be badly treated while he was still alive. “I am here Mama to express my condolences to your biological children whom I know, and the rest of Madikizela and Mandela family. I am here to look at your grandchildren in the eyes and tell them that they will never be treated like they have leprosy as long am still alive,” he said. Malema had a very close relationship with Madikizela-Mandela which dates back to when Malema was a Cosas leader. He also berated former UDF members who distanced themselves from her during apartheid. “The entire leadership of the EFF is here because they proudly and unashamedly associated with you and what you stood for while you were still alive, they looked for solutions and guidance from you. Equally big Mama, some of those who sold you to the regime are here and are crying louder than all of us who stood by you. The UDF cabal that distance itself from you is here crying crocodile tears after disowning you at a critical moment hoping the regime will finish off,” Malema added. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161