Zodidi Mhlana and Solly Makganoto God’s Chapel, a Johannesburg-based church is being accused of running an unregistered business from its premises, while the church’s pastor has refuted these accusations saying the business is in the process of being registered. Sipho Mahlangu from Soweto told Africa News 24-7 that he recently purchased a solar machine worth R3000 from RSA Solar Energy & Electronics which is part of the God’s Chapel church. “I bought the machine for my business from the church after seeing an advert on Gumtree website. I paid R3000 and collected the machine, but I discovered that the machine was not working when I got home,” he said. Mahlangu said that he then demanded a refund from the church when it became he realised that the machine was not properly functioning. “I decided to involve the police when I realised that the church was not willing to refund me or to give me a new working machine. The church sent me from pillar to post, telling me every day that I would get my money the following day. When I bought the machine, I spoke to the church pastor, but when I demanded my refund, he said that he was not available and instead sent his son to speak to me. But the son was very rude and arrogant and kept on giving me different explanations about my money,” he said. Mahlangu said that he only received his refund after the police had intervened on Tuesday this week. Pastor’s son, Peter Salanje said that the company would be registered. “We are in the process of registering it. We are looking for another building where we can run the business. We are not in these premises to avoid paying tax,” he told Africa News 24-7. The company, RSA Solar Energy & Electronics continues selling products ranging from solar battery and generators on Gumtree website. Many consumers who have accused the company of fraud have taken to online consumer forums to voice their concerns about its activities. Wayne Snyman wrote on hellopeter website about his bad experience with the company. “This company is apparently owned by “pastor Salanje”. A man of God who deceives and lies to people… These guys sold me Used batteries as New, and I had to get the confirmation from the Manufacturers that the battery they sold me was Used! Now he is refusing to refund me… They also gave the wrong Inverter which they also don’t want to refund me for… Laid a case of fraud and theft against these guys at the police and also notified my bank of their fraudulent activities. Look at the reviews of this company. How many people have these guys stolen from,” Snyman said. The Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguist Communities (CRL) Chairperson Thoko Mkhwanazi – Xaluva said that running a business within church premises was against the law. “If you are a non-profit organisation, you are not allowed to run a business from the premises of the church in which you get tax breaks because then you are not paying tax unlike other people. You can’t run a business from church premises because then you are doing not doing the right thing. The church is not designed to do business. Whatever is happening there, is outside the legal framework of the country. There’s a need to investigate what is happening there,” Mkhwanazi- Xlauva said. In 2015, the CRL conducted an investigation into the commercialisation of religion and the findings revealed that money collected from church members was not being banked. It also found that while the churches were registered as NPOs, their annual turnover was beyond the NPO limit. The study also revealed that church pastors were making money by selling products without permission from the South African Revenue Service. 