Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- Tributes have been pouring in following the death of former YO.TV presenter and producer Akhumzi Jezile and others in a car crash in Queenstown this weekend. Five people lost their lives in a car accident that took place on the N6 near Queenstown in the Eastern Cape on Saturday morning. The accident also claimed the lives of former Joyous Celebrations lead singer Siyasanga Kobese and actor Thobani Mseleni. Arts and Culture minister, Nathi Mthethwa was among those who paid tribute to the former presenter. We’re saddened to hear the news of the tragic and sudden passing of multitalented actor, producer, TV & radio presenter, Akhumzi Jezile. We’ll miss his exhilarating energy, passion & appreciation of Africa culture, which inspired him to learn most of our languages. #RIPAkhumzi pic.twitter.com/RdL0rcuGA4 — Min. Nathi Mthethwa (@NathiMthethwaSA) April 28, 2018  “We’re saddened to hear the news of the tragic and sudden passing of multitalented actor, producer, TV & radio presenter, Akhumzi Jezile. We’ll miss his exhilarating energy, passion & appreciation of Africa culture, which inspired him to learn most of our languages. #RIPAkhumzi,” Mthethwa said. Celebrities have also taken to social media to send their condolences to the families of the deceased. Hip-hop star Leslie Mampe also know as Da L.E.S said that Jezile was passionate about his work. Akhumzi was very passionate about entertainment it was so admirable to watch. It seemed like he was passionate about everyone. He’ll definitely be missed and remembered. To his family and friends my condolences goes out to y’all. #RipAkhumzi — Da L.E.S (@2freshLES) April 28, 2018  “Akhumzi was very passionate about entertainment it was so admirable to watch. It seemed like he was passionate about everyone. He’ll definitely be missed and remembered. To his family and friends my condolences goes out to Y’all,” Mampe said. TV presenter Minnie Dlamini tweeted: “my heart just broke. RIP Akhumzi. Life can be so unkind, but heaven could not wait.” My heart just broke ? #RIPAKHUMZI Life can be so unkind ? But heaven couldn’t wait… yoh hhayi ? — Minnie Dlamini Jones (@MinnieDlamini) April 28, 2018  Veteran actress Connie Ferguson sent her condolences. I have no words!? Praying for the families & friends of the deceased to find comfort in knowing that they continue to live through their work and in their hearts!?? #DeathBeNotProud #RIPThobani #RIPAkhumzi #RIPSiya #RIPNotyetidentified #Tragic? — Connie Ferguson (@Connie_Ferguson) April 28, 2018  “I have no words! Praying for the families and friends of the deceased to find comfort in knowing that they continue to live through their work and in their hearts,” Ferguson said. Media personality Boity Thulo wrote on Twitter: “God giveth and God taketh away.” “God giveth and God taketh away.” ?? #RIPAkhumzi — Boity Thulo (@Boity) April 28, 2018  Jezile came into prominence when he became a presenter on YO TV as a teenager. Jezile then focused on acting and producing after leaving YO- TV. The bubbly actor is also known for his role of Ngulube in SABC 1’s Tempy Pushas drama. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161