DURBAN, April 6 (ANA) – Former South African president Jacob Zuma thanked the people who went to the Durban High Court on Friday, to support him in his corruption case, and said lies and conspiracy would not prevail. “We won’t speak about this particular case for now because it’s sub judice. You don’t speak about court matters on the street. Well be back here on the 8th of June as the court has directed. What we know is that when a person has been charged, it doesn’t mean he’s guilty of the charge. As they say in English, innocent until proven otherwise,” he said in Zulu while speaking outside the court after the postponement. “I’m amazed by the people who treat me as if I’m already convicted. Your being here shows that you understand the law and the Constitution, not those who cast aspersion. Lies and conspiracy will never prevail against the truth. I’m facing charges of buying arms when I was a provincial [member of the executive council] MEC and when it was national government which procured the arms. But let’s leave that to the court. But my name has been already dragged through the mud.” Zuma was appearing for a preliminary hearing and is accused number one in a case that relates to the multi-billion rand arms deal, which dates back to 1999. He is facing 16 charges, including fraud, corruption, money laundering and racketeering, for allegedly receiving bribes from French arms manufacturer Thales and from his former financial adviser, Shabir Shaik. Thales is accused number two, and was represented by Christine Guirrera, who had flown in from Paris, France and was seated in the dock at least forty minutes before Zuma arrived. The arms deal secured military equipment for the country’s air, sea and land defence forces at a cost of more than R30 billion. Shaik was found guilty in 2005. He is currently serving a 15 year sentence at his upmarket Durban home on grounds of medical parole. Zuma told people on Friday, that he was going to challenge the National Prosecuting Authority’s decision to reinstate the charges against him. He said that he would like the court to listen to the “Spy Tapes and for the whole country to hear for itself what’s in the tapes”. “Because the judge in Pietermaritzburg…vindicated me that I was innocent, and that it was all a political conspiracy. There are people speaking in those tapes, not me, but everyone reporting on them refers to them as “Zuma tapes”. I was not there, but the tapes are always linked to me,” he said. “It’s obvious to me that the law-enforcement and political authorities think I must not enjoy my individual rights like any other citizen. They are lucky that we don’t beat people up anymore. Even those with no serious power now have the courage to attack me. They are indeed lucky I don’t beat up people. “When they call me a dog I don’t fight them because I know I’m not a dog. Even political newcomers have the courage to attack me, they tell me I must not campaign…I just look at them and see they know nothing. They are just new arrivals and don’t know what to say.” The court heard that a mutually agreed on postponement was being sought, with the next appearance provisionally set down for June 8. The postponement was needed as Zuma wanted to bring a review application of the case. The charges against Zuma were withdrawn in April 2009. In mid March, National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams announced that there was a reasonable prospect of conviction and said Zuma would be prosecuted for one count of racketeering, two counts of corruption, one count of money laundering and 12 counts of fraud. On Friday, Zuma said that he would continue to fight for the freedom of black people. “A black person’s struggle is heavy. When black people were sold off like commodities — it was Africans who were the victims. It is Africa which took the brunt of colonial slavery. We are fighting for freedom, not with our mouths, but we were in the middle of the struggle. Now they are hating me for saying that our freedom is not complete,” he said. “That’s why they are fighting and taking me to court because they fear I will open up people’s eyes about their suffering. It’s okay that I go to court, but things have to change and poverty come to an end. The economy must be in the hands of the poor. I thank you [supporters] that you are here to show that you are united and that our enemies cannot divide us.” ANA