JOHANNESBURG, April 18 – A constable testifying in the trial of Sandile Mantsoe, who allegedly killed his ex-girlfriend Karabo Mokoena, told the South Gauteng High Court on Wednesday that Mokoena’s body was burnt beyond recognition. Constable Helen Mahwete testified that it was so badly burnt it was impossible to see whether it was a male or female. “But when you took a closer look the toenails had red nail polish, that’s how we could tell it was a female.” Earlier Mahwete, a police detective, told the court she had been busy with another docket when she was told about a body found in Corlett drive. “The body was seen by a person passing by but they weren’t sure and when they passed again they called the police.” Mahwete said when she arrived on the scene she found her colleagues. “The main street is Corlett drive and there’s an open space with a ditch where it seems people from the informal settlement dumb rubbish in.” Mahwete said a construction worker pointed out the body to police. “I spoke to him and asked him if there was anything else he saw besides the body. I looked around the body and found two lids that smelt like petrol. There was also a blue blanket that had blood stains as well as a plastic bag with blood stains.” The constable said she called the mortuary vehicle and the body did not sustain any injuries while it was being transported. “When I arrived at the police station she (a constable) introduced me to a woman and said the body we found was of her child Karabo Mokoena. When I asked how she knew, she said there was a suspect who was arrested who wanted to go point out the body.” Mahwete said when she was at the police cells what she heard was “shocking”. “This man [Mantsoe] was explaining how he was meant to do something that he couldn’t even explain. What I heard is that what he did was what he had to do.” Mantsoe claimed that Captain Bhekisisa Mhlongo tried to bribe him. He also testified that he did not admit to the police officer that he had killed Mokoena. During proceedings at the South Gauteng High Court on Wednesday, Mantsoe detailed his conversation with Mhlongo. “We started having a casual conversation in the car and when we got to the police station we went into a room,” Mantsoe said. “At the police station, Captain Mhlongo said I see you’re a good boy who has everything going for him.” Defense advocate Victor Simelane asked whether he was informed of his rights. “No,” Mantsoe said. “While we were in that room he said I can give him something and we can let everything go and he said I will make sure that you don’t get in trouble and we will let you go.” Mantsoe said he told Mhlongo that he didn’t know why he was there because he did not kidnap anyone. “He stepped out the room and when he came back he asked if there was something small I could arrange for him and I said no.” Mantsoe told the court that he did not admit to killing Mokoena. But, Judge AJ Johnson said his admission to the captain was admissible as evidence. “The time that he spent with me he saw that my apartment had a status and where I stay isn’t a place where anyone stays. There were thousands of rands where he was searching. It’s an upmarket place,” Mantsoe said. “I wasn’t initially sure what he was asking me for because I’ve never been arrested before, I was nervous and confused and he was talking to me nicely and seemed like someone who was trying to assist me.” Mantsoe told the court that he didn’t know why Mhlongo would make up the story of him saying he killed Mokoena and that he didn’t remember him writing anything. Judge AJ Johnson asked Mantsoe whether he removed and disposed of Mokoena’s body. “I did,” Mantsoe admitted. And you knew they were looking for Karabo’s body?” Johnson asked. Yes,” Mantsoe responded. A sergeant who arrested Sandile Mantsoe, who allegedly killed his ex-girlfriend Karabo Mokoena, told the South Gauteng High Court on Wednesday that the accused admitted to the murder. “Captain Mhlongo was with Sandile and told me that he said he killed Karabo,” said sergeant Matshidiso Maseko from Diepkloof police station. Earlier, Maseko told the court that she worked on cases involving domestic violence and missing persons and on May 10 Karabo Mokoena’s mother, Keabetswe, came to report her daughter missing and that she had a boyfriend named Sandile Mantsoe. “I called Sandile and he last saw Karabo on the 27th April. He said she was at his apartment and he accompanied her to get a taxi.” Maseko said that Mokoena’s mother informed her that Karabo’s sister had been given her passport and ID by a cleaner. “We then drove to Sandton where Karabo’s sister was.” Maseko told the court when the arrived at Sandton Sky apartments where Mantsoe lived, they met with the manager. “We asked him to show us Sandile’s apartment. We knocked and there was no response.” “We went back downstairs and asked the manager to show us CCTV footage and before that the manager called Sandile and told him the police were looking for him and he said he was in Lyndhurst and would be back around 21:00.” Maseko said while viewing the CCTV footage they saw Mantsoe with Mokoena at around 16:00 on the 27th April 2017. “Around 02:00 on the 28th, Karabo and Sandile went into the lifts of the apartments and at 21:57 Sandile went to fetch a dustbin from downstairs.” Maseko said she didn’t see Karabo leaving the apartment. “We checked the apartment and we didn’t find Karabo and when we checked the carpet, I found it wet and it had stains that looked like blood.” Maseko said Mantsoe told her that he was selling the apartment and the estate agent was coming to view it. She notified Mantsoe that he was being arrested for kidnapping because he was the last person to see Mokoena. Defense advocate Victor Simelani cross-examined Maseko about what she saw on the CCTV footage and what Mantsoe was arrested for. “They walked in the apartments together and they were not talking,” Maseko told Simelani. The trial continues on Thursday. – African News Agency (ANA)