Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s daughter Zenani Dlamini on Saturday told mourners that she was angry at the former police commissioner George Fivas for only coming out now, to tell the truth about allegations levelled against Winnie in Stompie Seipei’s death. “I was particularly angered by the former police commissioner George Fivaz for cruelly only coming out with the truth after my mother’s death. And to those who’ve vilified my mother through books, on social media and speeches, don’t for a minute think we’ve forgotten. The pain you inflicted on her lives on in us,” Zenani said. Zenani questioned the motives of those who were praising her mother after her death, saying that they had robbed her of her rightful legacy. “We saw so many who had sat on the truth come out one by one, to say that they had known all along that these things that had been said about my mother were not true. And as each of them disavowed these lies, I had to ask myself: ‘Why had they sat on the truth and waited till my mother’s death to tell it?’ It is so disappointing to see how they withheld their words during my mother’s lifetime, knowing very well what they would have meant to her. I think their actions are actions of extreme cruelty because they robbed my mother of her rightful legacy during her lifetime. Praising her now that she’s gone shows what hypocrites you are,” she said. For nearly three decades, Madikizela-Mandela’s name had been linked to the death of Stompie Seipei. The 14 years- old was killed by the former coach of the Nelson Mandela’s Football in 1989. Seipei’s body was found in Madikizela-Mandela’s house in Soweto. Seipei was abducted by members of the Football club. Madikizela-Mandela was convicted of abducting the young boy. Following Madikizela-Mandela’s death, former Police Commissioner Fivas told the media that she was not personally responsible for the teenager’s death. “They were not in a position to find evidence of a constructive nature that linked Winnie to Stompie’s death. There was not a single information that fingered Winnie for the murder or that she instructed Stompie to be murdered,” Fivos told eNCA. An independent investigation into Seipei’s killing was re-opened when Fivos was the country’s Police Commissioner. Zenani also told mourners it was her mother who kept her father memory alive during his imprisonment. “My mother is one of the many women who rose against patriarchy, prejudice and the might of a Nuclear-armed state to bring about the peace and democracy we enjoy today,” she said. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161