Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- North West police on Friday said no arrests have been made following yet another shooting last night within the North West platinum mines. The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), spokesperson Livhuwani Mammburu said that its prominent branch chairperson at Eastern Platinum Mine at Lonmin was shot together with his wife on Thursday by unknown assailants. “It is alleged that he was shot with his wife at his house in Bapong village near Brits. They were both rushed to the hospital and the NUM is still waiting for further details about their condition in hospital. Our unity as the working class in Rustenburg is more important than ever to ensure that we become our brother’s keeper in an attempt to stop the continuation of workers being attacked,” Mammburu said. It is alleged that the rivalry between the National Union of Mineworkers and the Association of Mineworkers and Constructions Union (Amcu) has resulted in several killing in recent years within the mining sector in the province. In October last year, Amcu announced that it had hired private investigator Paul O’Sullivan to probe the shootings which have claimed several lives. Provincial police spokesperson, Brigadier Sabata Mokgwabone said the shooting was being investigated.  “No one has been arrested yet. We are aware of the number of killings that have taken place within the mining industry. In some cases, suspects have been arrest in some cases, suspects have been arrested. We are investigating the latest shooting. Unions have the responsibility of assisting with the killings. We need to get cooperation from those who have been arrested,” Mokgwabone said. Mammburu called on police to arrest those behind the latest shooting. “The NUM appeals to the law enforcement agencies to hunt down the perpetrators and arrest them. We request all workers in the Rustenburg region and all progressive forces to please rally behind this family and anyone with information to assist the law enforcement agencies,” Mammburu said. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161