Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- South African photojournalist, Shiraaz Mohamed who was kidnapped in northern Syria a year ago is still “alive” that’s the word from the Gift of the Givers. The organisation on Tuesday said that their contacts had been able to confirm that Mahomed was alive, even though no ransom demands had been made. “Through Dr Ahmad Ghandour’s relentless efforts we started receiving messages from 28 September from at least eight different sources that Shiraaz was alive, one such source stating that he was with Shiraaz on 17 November. We finally found out that he was still alive. We have proof of life. The people who are contacting us will then tell us what the next step is. They don’t know when will that happen,” Gift of the Givers, director Imtiaz Sooliman said. Sooliman said that their contacts in Syria received a telephone call on December 26 from people who claimed that they were aware of Mohamed’s whereabouts. A list of ten questions were then sent to them to verify if it was indeed Mohamed. He said that they were able to confirm that he was alive after questions which were sent to Mohamed were all answered accurately. “We have proof of life and no ransom demands at this stage. They use all sort of various communications systems and they are still going to call us. From what we’ve heard, he seems to be in good health. He wants to come home. The questions sent to him were very personal, like what’s his father’s name, how many siblings he has, where does his brother in law live and others,” Sooliman said. Today, marks exactly a year since Mohammed photojournalist Mohamed was kidnapped in Syria and it’s still unclear who is holding him. Mohamed was abducted close to the Turkish border on January 10 last year. No ransom demands have been made. The photojournalist celebrated his 39 birthday in captivity in April 2016. Mohamed’s former wife and close friend, Shirley Brijlal previously said that she was hopeful that he would return home alive. Mohamed had travelled to Syria with the Gift of the Givers. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161