Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- Deputy Minister for Higher Education and Training Buti Manamela is calling for calm during tertiary registration following Capricorn TVET College stampede. Manamela who was meeting with the Principals of all Technical and Vocational Education and Training Colleges (TVETs) at Ekurhuleni West TVET College in Germinston was briefed on the situation. He appealed to prospective students to work together with officials to finalise their applications. “We appeal to all prospective students to ensure that they have all the necessary documents to enable the Colleges to handle their applications and registration swiftly. I urge all students to follow the procedures for application and registration so that we can resume learning and teaching on Monday,” he said. “We remain grateful for the outstanding work by our security personnel, the police and paramedics in the manner in which they handled the situation.” The college was forced to suspend registration process at its Polokwane campus after six students were injured during a stampede. A spokesperson for the college, Tumelo Morobi said that the stampede occurred when over 1000 prospective students became uncontrollable at the gates. Morobi said that the causes of the stamped were still unclear. Manamela said discussions were underway between college management, the city council of Polokwane and the South African Police services to identify an alternative and more suitable venue for registrations. He further appealed to college principals to welcome as many students as want education to enrol at the institutions. “You need to allow as many students as possible, with obvious consideration to enrolment plans and available resources. It is clear that some people would like to take advantage of the situation by festering confusion and distortion in order to achieve political goals. I must reiterate that all TVETs and Universities have gone on with their registrations without incidents thus far,” he said. Manamela said he would continue to monitor the situation at Capricorn TVET College and if needs be, would be paying them a visit. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@africanews24-7.co.za