Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba has removed MMC for finance Rabelani Dagada and also suspended him. “Today, in consultation with the DA Federal Executive, I have taken the extraordinary step of removing Cllr Rabelani Dagada as the MMC of Finance in the City of Johannesburg. Cllr Dagada has also been suspended by the Federal Executive as a Councillor, pending an enquiry of the DA’s Federal Legal Commission,” Mashaba said in a statement. He said late last year, there were reports which alleged serious activities of undue influence and nepotism against Dagada. Mashaba said at the time, he immediately initiated a forensic investigation through an external company, which was concluded last week Friday. “The forensic investigation has found that Cllr Dagada has breached the City’s Code of Conduct by not declaring his interests and, subsequently, conflicts of interest with individuals closely associated with him. Further to this, the forensic investigation has found Cllr Dagada to have been involved in price fixing with a service provider to the City, and in the process acted against his sworn duty to our residents,” said Mashaba. According to the investigation, Dagada acted in a manner which has sought, either directly or indirectly, to benefit service providers and officials closely associated with him. Mashaba said in the process, a series of events have transpired that, in his view, could not have taken place coincidentally to the exclusive benefit of the associates. “An unforgivable element of the undue influence, according to the investigation, relates to the unfair treatment of officials who were pressured to authorise procurement deals to the benefit of those closely associated. I am proud to say that these officials stood firm in their convictions and refused to do what they knew was wrong. I take a small measure of comfort in this, knowing that we have begun to achieve a professionalised civil service when principled officials, acting in the interests of our residents, are defended and those alleged of wrongdoing are dealt with decisively,” said Mashaba. He said the city has initiated disciplinary action against the implicated officials, who will face disciplinary enquiries for their roles in the breaches of legislation and governance procedures. “Whilst the disciplinary processes are underway, I will be laying a complaint with the ethics committee of the Council and criminal charges against Cllr Dagada. To ensure that I have decisive and suitable leadership in this important portfolio, I have decided to move MMC Funzela Ngobeni, from Development Planning to MMC of Finance with immediate effect, and appointed Mr Reuben Masango to replace him. Mr Masango is one of our current PR Councillors representing Ward 36 and 38 in Soweto,” said Mashaba. @karabongoepe1 karabo.ngoepe@africanews24-7.co.za