Karabo Ngoepe PRETORIA- The Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) says it will not be accepting any walk-in students seeking to study further. The university said it would only be welcoming first-year students who have already applied and who have been accepted for study with for the year. Spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said TUT supported the call from the Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET) as well as Universities South Africa (USSA) for prospective students to refrain from walking onto campuses countrywide in the hope of finding placement for the academic year. “This appeal is also in line with TUT’s long-standing position of not accepting Walk-Ins. All universities annually submit their Student Enrolment Plans, that are aligned with their institutional resources to ensure the provision of quality education to all students, to DHET for approval. In 2018, TUT will be able to accommodate 15 500 first-year students. The University has received in excess of 100 000 applications form prospective first time-entering students,” she said. The announcement comes just hours after matriculants obtained their results and look set to plot the paths of the futures. Unfortunately, the university said there was no longer space available for first-year placement. “Although the university understands the aspirations of successful Matriculates to further their education, it would also like to urge prospective students not to come to our campuses to look for placement. All the spaces available for first-year students have already been filled towards the end of 2017. The University will continuously update the public of the possible availability of spaces through its Website on www.tut.ac.za, its social media platforms and the media,” said de Ruyter. She said the announcement was to assist those come travelling from far-flung areas not to waste funds by going to the campuses. “As a people’s university, TUT acknowledges that the majority of its students come from rural and disadvantaged areas, therefore we don’t want them to incur unnecessary costs in travelling to our campuses. All prospective students should rather visit a centre with access to the Internet closest to them, to apply for study through the Central Application System (CAPS) on cach.dhet@gov.za,” she said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161