Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- South African entrepreneur and businessman Henry McCarter has recently launched a new digital banking platform that is set to take on American brands such as PayPal and Pay Fast which have long been dominating the digital banking space around the world, raking in billions of rands and dollars in the process. The new digital payment application, Pay2, was developed over four years and two months ago, shortly after the product launched, McCarter managed to secure a 100% stake in the business, in a transaction worth millions. McCarter has partnered with veteran actor Luthuli Dlamini to help drive the marketing communication needs of the brand. “The product is definitely revolutionary and seeks to transform the banking system in South Africa. You can pay anyone at anytime, and what I like about it is that it is particularly good for employees. For example, with our system, a major entity like Eskom can save up to 19 million rand in bank charges. These are huge savings on the payroll,” he said. In an interview with Africa News 24-7, he explained that since going into business, the company has associated itself with FNB, Investec and Nedbank which hold the funds for Pay 2. This is because the company is not a deposit taking institution. “The money comes in and you pay it out again. The platform is Insured for R150 million and our security is stronger than that of the banks. All the major banks can used. This project has been four years in development at a cost of a few million. I Bought it from developers but I cannot disclose the exact amount as it was a substantial purchase with millions involved. I got into this business because Digital banking is the future. We are moving into a cashless society, and soon there will be a card-less society. We have structured it so that it is accommodated for downloads on different platforms. If you look at what has been going on in our landscape, Ten million rand in South Africa has been stolen from stokvels. With this product, Now stokvel members are able to load payments on their phones,” he said. Currently, the company employs about 14 people to roll out and drive brand which works exactly like PayPal. McCarters business interests includes a network of 22 companies under the MS Management Group SA where he is the chairman. These include companies in printing, entertainment, media and the film industry. “The brand is being received very well. First question people ask me is what is your number and are astonished at the Speed at which they can transfer money via their cell phone. We are planning to take it globally within this coming year. Once we conclude the roll out in SA, we will then move in throughout the rest of Africa,” he said. Click the link below to see the full interview:  @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161