Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- The Tshwane University of Technology on Friday announced that its online application system would close at midnight. Early in the week, the institution said that it still had some space for the 2018 academic year, urging prospective students to apply online and not to visit the campuses. “Towards the end of 2017, the Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) has already received more than 100 000 applications for the 15 056 spaces available for first-year students in 2018. On Monday, the University’s online application system opened, affording learners one more opportunity to apply for the limited number of spaces that were still available in courses at the Polokwane, eMalahleni, Soshanguve, GaRankuwa, Mbombela, Arcadia and Arts Campuses,” TUT spokesperson, Willa de Ruyter said. De Ruyter said that registration process at the institution would only kick off on Monday next week. “Successful applicants are also reminded that they should report to their respective faculties on the commencement dates stipulated in the acceptance letter they have received from the university. The process of allocating space and placing successful students in residences will only commence once registration has started. No one will be allowed into any residence before they have been registered,” she said. While registration is underway at some institutions of higher learning, the process has not been very smooth. Six prospective student sustained injuries on Thursday during a stampede at Capricorn TVET College in Polokwane, Limpopo. A spokesperson for the college, Tumelo Morobi said that the stampede occurred when over 1000 prospective students became uncontrollable at the gates. Meanwhile, Higher Education and Training deputy minister, Buti Manamela was scheduled to visit several institutions of higher learning on Friday including the Walter Sisulu University and Buffalo City TVET College.The aim of the visit is to ensure that the “implementation of fee free higher education for the poor and the working-class runs smoothly across institutions of higher learning.” @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161