Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- South Africa’s Private Rhino Owners Association (PROA) said that poaching syndicates were now targeting private reverses throughout the country as the sector lost hundreds of rhinos to poaching last year. PROA’s Chairman, Pelham Jones said that while the Association welcomed a decline in the number of rhinos killed in South Africa in 2017, more rhinos should be protected especially those in private reverses. “Alarmingly, we lost 232 animals in 2017 – a 146% increase on the previous year. We believe that criminal syndicates are aggressively targeting private reserves across the country – we note an increase in poaching in KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga, the Northern Cape, the Free State and the North West. Although we should rightly celebrate the fact that Kruger National Park registered a 24% drop in poaching between 2016 and 2017, this is not a victory for rhinos due to the increase in onslaughts on private reserves, and the concomitant loss of lives,” Jones said.  He said that private owners had spent R2billion over the past eight years on rhino security and management. Jones was reacting to figures released by the Environmental Affairs minister Edna Molewa on Thursday which revealed that the country lost 1 028 rhinos due to poaching from January 1, 2017 to December 31, last year compared to 1 054 in the same period for 2016. Molewa said that while those killed for their horns in the Kruger National Park had decreased in the past year, there was an increase in rhino killing in five provinces including KwaZulu-Natal, Northern Cape, Mpumalanga, Free State and North West. Jones said that rhino private rhino breeders lost 300 rhinos in 2014 and the figured dropped to 160 animals in 2016. He said that private owners were battling to keep their animals safe from wildlife syndicates. “Although the latest figures show that fewer rhinos have been poached, they do not reveal that more poaching attempts are putting a strain on those tasked with keeping rhinos safe. Despite having the most sophisticated security systems in the country, private reserves are struggling to protect their animals. Between 2009 and 2017, the private sector spent about R2bn on rhino security and management. It would have been ideal to be able to recoup these costs with legal rhino-horn trade. Poaching has reduced the value of rhino – and it must be remembered that private reserves do not receive any incentives or government funding,” Jones added. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161