Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- The City of Tshwane is set to engage with taxi associations following the hijacking of an A Re Yeng bus. MMC for Roads and Transport Sheila Lynn Senkubuge said one of the city’s A Re Yeng buses was hijacked yesterday (Tuesday), because of the friction created by errant taxi drivers in breach of an agreement entered into by the taxi associations and the City of Tshwane and having been duly compensated by the City. “As such, the City has called an urgent meeting to put the associations on terms to ensure that all their drivers honour the agreement entered into on their behalf. Failing which, the City of Tshwane will pursue legal action to rectify the situation and ensure that commuters get the services to which they are entitled. This comes after one of the A Re Yeng buses was hijacked and taken to Stinkwater with passengers onboard,” she said. The Tshwane Metro Police Department (TMPD) later recovered the bus and escorted it back to Rainbow Junction. This resulted in the operation being temporarily halted at Bloed Street Mall, Marabastad and Rainbow Junction. Senkubuge said in December 2017, the City of Tshwane entered into the drop-off agreement with the three taxi associations originating from Hammanskraal, Stinkwater and Eersterus. The associations are Hammanskraal Taxi Organisation (HATO); Stinkwater Eersterus Taxi Association (SETA); and Ga-Mokone Hammanskraal Stinkwater Taxi Association (GHSTA). She said the details of the agreement were that the three taxi associations would no longer proceed into the central business district (CBD) area of the city from their point of origin but would drop off passengers at Wonderboom Junction in the morning and pick them up there back to the origin point which is Hammanskraal, Stinkwater and Eersterus respectively at the single trip fare of R17.00. The A Re Yeng buses would pick up those passengers at Wonderboom Junction to the CBD up to Hatfield for a single trip fare of R8.00. The arrangement commenced on the 8th of January 2018 as per agreement with the three taxi associations. “On 16 January 2018, taxi drivers of all three taxi associations were forced to drop off at Wonderboom Junction as per the agreement with taxi operators. The reason for the forceful drop-offs is that, since the 8 of January 2018, taxi drivers were not dropping off as per the agreement and they charged passengers R24.00 and R23.00 respectively instead of R17.00. These forceful drop-offs resulted in the protest by taxi drivers that they did not want to load passengers from Wonderboom Junction to Hammandskraal, Stinkwater and Eersterus. They instead referred passengers to a hiking spot adjacent to Wonderboom Junction which frustrated commuters,” she said. Senkubuge added that the city of Tshwane was committed to ensuring that commuters get the necessary services they need which is reliable and safe transport in a well-connected city of opportunity. “In doing so we will ensure that all stakeholders who enter into agreements to provide service to our people do so or risk facing the might of the law,” she said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161