CAPE TOWN, January 2 (ANA) – New Year’s Day on South Africa’s coastline was marred by a number of serious incidents, including several drownings, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) reported on Monday. In two separate incidents, an adult male and a 10-week-old girl were declared deceased at Muizenberg beach in Cape Town. NSRI spokesperson Craig Lambinon said that at 4:25pm, NSRI Strandfontein medics responded to Muizenberg beach to assist Western Cape Government Health EMS, Life Healthcare response paramedics and CMR (Cape Medical Response) paramedics attending to two incidents. “An adult male had reportedly been rescued out the water following a suspected drowning and CPR (Cardio Pulmonary resuscitation) efforts were underway,” Lambinon said. “A 10-week-old child had been brought to authorities on the beach after being found (believed to have been found by her mom in sand on the beach) and CPR efforts were underway. “Despite extensive CPR efforts, both patients have been declared deceased on the scene by paramedics after all efforts to resuscitate the patients were exhausted by paramedics and Police have opened inquest dockets in both cases and Forensic Pathology Services have taken the bodies of the deceased into their care.” In Richards Bay in KwaZulu-Natal, the sea rescue craft Grindrod Rescuer was dispatched to Naval Island following reports of a local 15-year-old male in difficulty and reported to be drowning. “On arrival on the scene, NSRI rescue swimmers were deployed into the surf to search and a TNPA (Transnet National Ports Authority) helicopter assisted in a search and the body was spotted in the water and recovered by NSRI rescue swimmers. “NSRI medics conducted CPR (Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation) efforts which were joined by Ice paramedic services and after successful CPR on the scene the patient was transported to hospital by ambulance in a critical condition, ”he said. “NSRI are sad to inform that it has been revealed that the teenager succumbed in hospital and was declared deceased by doctors.” At Monwabisi beach, a search is continuing at Monwabisi beach where a 25-year-old male is reportedly missing in the surf. NSRI Strandfontein duty crew were activated by the Transnet National Ports authority at 11h11 and two NSRI sea rescue craft Spirit of Grand West CSI and Film Industry Fund Rescuer One were launched. “NSRI Strandfontein, WC Government Health EMS, the EMS/AMS Skymed rescue helicopter, Lifeguards, Law Enforcement Marine and a Law Enforcement Marine rescue craft, the SA Police Services, Cape Town Fire and Rescue Services, a Police Dive Unit, Metro police conducted an extensive search including NSRI rescue swimmers and Law Enforcement Marine officers doing a sweeping line free dive search in the water, in an area on a beach at Monwabisi that is quite a distance away from the lifeguard protected beach area but no sign of the man has been found and Police have opened an investigation and a Police Dive unit will continue in an ongoing search operation assisted by lifeguards and Law Enforcement stationed at Monwabisi beach.” The casualty boat was towed by NSRI without incident to Mykonos harbour. In Plettenberg Bay, medics responded at 4:54pm to a hotel in Keurbooms where a 50-year-old local man had suffered a suspected heart attack. “NSRI medics and an NSRI duty doctor treated the man on the scene and WC Government Health EMS and Medlife ambulance were summoned and he has been transported to hospital by ambulance in a stable condition.” At around 10:18am at Witsand on the Cape south coast, NSRI duty crew responded to Main Beach where Haseequa Municipal lifeguards had rescued a male, believed to be aged 25, from Heidelberg, from the surf and on getting the man to the beach they had initiated resuscitation efforts which were successful. – African News Agency (ANA),