Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- Hundreds of Nehawu members at the University of South Africa downed tools on Wednesday after talks to resolve problems between the two parties collapsed. The National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu) is demanding a 12% increase while the university is offering 6.5%. Nehawu’s spokesperson, Khaya Xaba on Wednesday said that the union has over 25 000 members at the institution across the country. “Our second demand is the absorption of all workers who have been on contracts since 2014. We are saying there should be employed on a full time basis at the university. They say that they can’t meet our demands, pleading poverty. But, we know for a fact that they are being disingenuous, Unisa attracts and registers more than 400 000 students and they are sitting on more half a 500billion in reserves. They do have money to pay workers, they are just being intransigent,” he said. The university re-opened applications for first year students on Monday this week, but some prospective students were unable to register on Wednesday due to the strike. The closing date for the application is on Friday. Xaba accused the university of being arrogant. “Workers have been patient with the university and the negotiations started four months ago. Throughout this time, the university management has been very treating workers with disdain and arrogance. Workers are sick and tired and therefore that’s why we took a decision to go on strike,” he said. He said that the union was not aware as to when talks between them would resume. “They have to approach us, as a union, we have an open door policy. Whenever, they are ready to negotiate with us, we are willing to negotiate anytime. Our members have down tools, so they will not be able to help students. The university has caused all this mess. They must fix this with the union so that everything can return to normality. The strike will continue indefinitely, if they are meeting our demands,” he said. Xaba further said that all “council members stop doing business with the university with immediate effect as they care less about the issues of workers but to corruptly milk the university. The union further demands that all council members cited and implicated in the state of capture report including the famous Gupta leaks resign from council with immediate effect.” @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@africanews24-7.co.za