Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- With thousands of matric graduates still looking for space to further their studies at institutions of higher learning, universities on Monday made it clear that they would not be accepting late walk-in applications. Since President Jacob Zuma announced that students from poor families will be funded to study free at institutions of higher learning, some political parties have encouraged students to submit their late applications at universities. However, universities have reiterated that late walk-in applications will not be accepted. Johannesburg University spokesperson Herman Esterhuizen said: “We are strictly not allowing walk-in applications. If prospective students want to apply, they must do so online. We banned walk -in applications more than five years ago,” he said. He said that the institution received 115 000 applications for 100 500 first year spaces at the closing date of the deadline last year. He said that the university banned walk-in applications since the death of a mother during a stampede that occurred while hundreds of students were queueing for last – minute applications to the university in 2012. Esterhuizen urged prospective students to apply online. He said that the university had received 115000 applications for 100 500 spaced. The Tshwane university of Technology spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said that space was still available, but appealed to prospective students to apply online. “A contingency plan to manage the influx of people to our campuses and to provide safety to the University community and members of the public has been put in place. During a meeting with relevant role players including student leaders, it was once again agreed that no Walk-ins will be accommodated on campus and that all prospective students should apply through the online system for courses that still have space available,” she said. TUT said that it had received more than 100 000 applications from prospective first time-entering students towards the end of 2017. The students are all competing for 15 500 first-year places available. Dozens of prospective students queued outside TUT’s Pretoria, Soshanguve and GaRankuwa campuses on Monday. Registration at TUT will begin next week Monday. The university of Pretoria (UP) on Monday also said that its registration process will commence on Wednesday. Rikus Deport from UP said that they had received over 38 000 applications for 9500 available spaces. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161