VEREENIGING, January 17 – Violence erupted outside Hoërskool Overvaal in Vereeniging. Police had to use stun grenades and fired rubber bullets to quell the situation. Protesters burnt tyres and one parent was attacked by the group. The parent was punched after he allegedly made an offensive gesture towards the protesters.  The group is calling for social transformation following a High Court ruling last week that government acted unlawfully when it ordered the school to admit 55 English speaking pupils.  @MbalulaFikile Your goons in blue would rather shoot at innocent protesters fighting for education than to stand up to thugs in townships. #HoerskoolOverVaal — Ngud keeper (@GeneralNgud) January 17, 2018  This man was beaten by EFF members after displaying rude racist & insulting signs at & physically damaging cars hooting in approval of a peaceful protest #HoerskoolOvervaal pic.twitter.com/aCLsySDkRD — Man’s Not Barry Roux (@AdvBarryRoux) January 17, 2018  In a rare show of unity, scores of ruling African National Congress (ANC) and opposition Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) members joined hands outside the Hoerskool Overvaal in Vereeniging on Wednesday, protesting against the exclusion of non-Afrikaans speaking learners at the school. Mofokeng Tlhoriso, the chairperson of the Overvaal Transformation Committee, told the African News Agency that despite a court ruling this week which found in favour of the school’s controversial decision, the protesters were still hoping to have their children placed at the Afrikaans school. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi was scheduled to speak to journalists at the nearby Riverside High School on Wednesday morning. Lesufi on Monday said his department intended to appeal the judgment made by Judge Bill Prinsloo that 55 English speaking learners cannot be admitted at Hoerskool Overvaal due to capacity constraints. “Let the Constitutional Court legalise racism, let the Constitutional Court say you are wrong in requesting our children just to study, sing and dance together. We are not asking for anything, we are saying let our children sing, dance and study together. If that is unlawful let someone come and tell us why,” he said. -(ANA)