Karabo Ngoepe PRETORIA- South African universities have been taken to the Human Rights Commission over the decision not to accept walk-in applications for the year. Education activist Hendrick Makaneta has lodged a formal complaint with the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) following lack of clear plans by universities to directly respond to late applications from many students across the country. In a letter sent to the chairperson of the commission, Makaneta explained that South African universities have not shown commitment nor presented any plan to cater for students who have not yet applied within the various higher education institutions. “There are several universities that have not complied with the call by the president to give priority to academically deserving students from poor backgrounds, particularly those who have not yet applied. Tampering with the right to learn is a serious violation of the constitution of the Republic of South Africa. We call on the SAHRC to step in to restore the dignity of students to learn in a conducive environment without being excluded.” Makaneta said. Universities have come out to say they would not be accepting walk-in applications and have urged prospective students not to waste their time by coming to campuses. Their announcement came in the footsteps of President Jacob Zuma’s announcement that poor students would be funded to study free of charge. Makaneta said the decision by the universities was an attack on poor people who have dreams of studying further. He lambasted the body representing universities, the Universities South Africa (USAf) and said it should take full responsibility for academic exclusions targeted at those who cannot afford. “The statement that there must be no walk-ins is a serious setback to those who wish to take advantage of higher education. Universities will exclude students as a way to hide behind USAf’s call for no walk-ins. The SAHRC should urgently summon university managers in order to establish whether or not universities have tangible plans in place to accommodate students from poor backgrounds.” Makaneta said. Despite others not accepting walk-ins, others welcomed them. The Vaal University of Technology, University of Venda, University of Pretoria and the University of Johannesburg were amongst those that were giving priority to students from poor backgrounds. He also lashed out at USAf, saying it was not helping the situation and should be disbanded. “Higher Education Minister Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize should disband USAf as they have become an irrelevant and dysfunctional structure where university managers meet from time to time just to drink tea,” Makaneta added “We hope that the SAHRC will do what is necessary to safeguard the right to learn,” he said.