Karabo Ngoepe PRETORIA- Condolences continue to pour in following the tragic train crash in Kroonstad, Free State which claimed 18 lives. Parliament’s transport committee chairperson Dikeledi Magadzi said the crash was unfortunate especially that it happened when the Department of Transport and her entities, and law enforcement agencies are sparing no effort in containing road accidents. “The anguish is beyond measure. As a country, we are struggling with a high number of road crashes, and this one involving a train caught all by surprise. The Committee would like to plead vigilance especially among drivers of motor vehicles as we are approaching the end of the festive season,” Magadzi said. On Thursday, a passenger train travelling from Port Elizabeth to Johannesburg, collided with a truck at a level crossing in Kroonstad, Free State, before it burst into flames. Currently, 18 people are reported dead and over 200 had been admitted to nearby hospitals. “Transport is central to booming economic activity and vibrant domestic tourism sector. We want a safe public transport where travelling around economic centres is enjoyable,” said Magadzi. She called on drivers to exercise extra caution on the roads over the weekend as holidaymakers return from vacations and get ready for work and school. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) also wished the injured a speedy recovery. Spokesperson Dr Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said the accident was no doubt one of the greatest road accidents in recent times. “We call on all South Africans who are still travelling from different holiday destinations to do so responsibly. We must all exercise patience in voluminous holiday traffic, avoid drinking and driving and respect speed limits. In addition, we must all be careful not to drive whilst fatigued as this is also responsible for a lot of accidents on the roads,” he said. Ndlozi further called for a probe into the crash and for anyone found to be in the wrong to face the full might of the law. “We hope there will be a thorough investigation into the Kroonstad train crash that will lead to those responsible being held accountable,” he said. The Democratic Alliance’s Manny de Freitas said they were deeply saddened by the deaths that occurred because of the accident. He echoed Ndlozi’s sentiments and said investigations would have to reveal if safety measures were in place along the rail line. “It is clear that had the Shosholoza Meyl train travelling from Port Elizabeth to Johannesburg followed basic safety precautions, this tragedy could have been avoided. The lack of booms and other security measures at level crossings, closing off rail lines and controls allowed a truck driver to illegally cross the rail lines which he shouldn’t have. Metrorail continues to ignore the basics such as maintaining security fences running along rail lines and ensuring that signalling systems are maintained so that early warning systems are in place that will prevent such collisions,” said de Freitas. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161