Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- The murder of a 43-year-old Krugersdorp farm worker allegedly by his boss has left many South Africans outraged after pictures started circulating on social media on Monday. Sidiko Rakolote posted images of a man lying dead in the seat of a tractor with blood dripping from his body with a caption that read: “Killed….Killed…..Killed. Black farm worker who is a tractor driver killed by the farm owner. Allegedly just because he used the tractor during lunch to go get something for him to eat. His death might not be in the mainstream media because of obvious reasons. A breadwinner, father, uncle, brother was killed.” The post generated a flurry of comments with many calling for stern action to be taken against the farmer. Some called for a harsh sentence against the farmer while others called for the farmer to be attacked for the murder. Themba Ngubeni responded: “The big fight iz coming white people they knw tht they have power over us couse they have money nd they knw tht this country iz corrupt we must be ready as black couse the big fight iz comming this white they wont just let the farm just like our government want so we nid 2 be ready couse nw they killing us nw nd then i ghink our leadership must deal with this we want justice on this 1” [sic]. Mlondi Manzini: “In fact all those whites who call themselves must march in Krugersdorp to voice their anger at this RACIST and BARBARIC attack on poor and vulnerable workers. Cde Sizwe Pamla this is a challenge for us, as COSATU we need to respond to this in the most decisive manner possible” [sic] Police confirmed that they have arrested a 46-year-old farmer for shooting and killing an employee for driving a tractor home. Police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele said on Saturday the 6th of January, police arrested a 46-year-old male regarding a murder that took place at Matshelapad informal settlement after he handed himself to the police. “It is alleged that the 43-year-old victim was travelling on a tractor from his place of employment to his place of residence at Matshelapad when he was followed by the farmer. It was alleged that the victim stole the tractor that he was driving,” said Makhubele. The victim was allegedly followed up until Matshelapad where he was shot at by the farmer. The victim suffered a gunshot wound to his head. The shooting angered residents who turned on the farmer. “The shooting took place at an open field near Matshelapad. The police were summoned to the scene and on their arrival, the situation was reported to be tense, as the members of the community attacked the farmer. The vehicle belonging to the farmer was badly damaged and the officer escaped unharmed,” he said. The farmer ran away and turned himself over to police. The 46-year-old was charged with murder. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161