Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- The Progressive Professionals Forum (PPF) has welcomed the newly appointed Eskom board, saying it was a sign the ANC was ready to turn State Owned Enterprises around. Spokesperson Phapano Phasha the organisation was however concerned about two issues which have the power and propensity to undermine the same efforts as intended by the announcement. “The statement expressly makes a point that directs the new board to remove from Eskom specific individuals who basically are alleged to be having clouds of sorts hanging over their heads. It was thus with shock and very disturbing to read in the same press statement that Mr Mark Lamberti is part of the new Eskom board despite a cloud over his head as a result of him facing a serious Court action where he is being accused of being a racist,” she said. “The racism case against Mr Mark Lamberti is a very serious matter that is still pending in a Court of Law. This is a very unfortunate contradiction in the intent of government as contained in the announcement to improve the image of Eskom and an indictment on the due diligence process by government prior to making board appointments.” She said the country was still reeling from over 360 years of racial discrimination, a crime to humanity which is still meted against black people to this day, and thus the inclusion of Lamberti on the board of a State Owned company before his case is finalised flies in the face of fighting racism and good corporate governance. Phasha added that it was common cause that Matshela Koko was charged for alleged misconduct and was fully exonerated by a legally competent tribunal in the form of disciplinary hearing, whose decision the board accepted hence his return to work. “Mr Singh on the other hand still has to go through a lawful due process as prescribed in the Labour Relations Act for him to get an opportunity to prove his innocence, a right that must be afforded to every South African worker in terms of our Constitution. For the statement from the Office of the Deputy President to direct the incoming Board to remove, inter alia Mr Matshela Koko who has gone through a due process as prescribed in the LRA and absolved and Mr Singh who is yet to be afforded his labour relations act rights, undermines not only good governance but also the rule of law, in particular, the Labour Relations Act, 66 of 1995 and indeed the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa,” Phasha said. The PPF called on the Deputy President to further direct the incoming Board and the Acting Group Chief Executive to ensure that only companies with a minimum 51% black ownership are given procurement opportunities at Eskom. Phasha said that would be a radical step towards reversing the legacy of apartheid to address the racially skewed economic ownership patterns. “White owned coal mining companies massively benefit from cost plus funding models and evergreen contracts of over 30 to 40 years charging Eskom exorbitant prices way above the market rates. Surely this must be in contravention of Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) that requires cost-effectiveness. The black-owned companies must be unapologetically given the opportunity to occupy the centre stage of procurement budgets in all government and SOC’s particularly in Eskom so that the Radical Economic Transformation adopted in the 54th national conference of the ANC is not just a rhetoric but is a dream to be realised in our lifetime,” said Phasha. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@africanews24-7.co.za