In the week that we anticipate the ANC’s much awaited first NEC meeting scheduled for coming Wednesday to be followed by its subsequent January 8 Statement, that mark its 106 year of existence, there is also a visible campaign unfolding since December with a deluge of speculations of anticipated decisions on the sitting SA president and general silence from the ANC. Hazrat Ali Ibn Abu- Talib A.S reminds us “You are the master of what you say until you utter it, once you deliver it, you are its captive. Preserve your tongue as you do your gold and money. One word could bring disgrace and the termination of bliss.” The recently elected National Chairperson of the ANC Gwede Mantashe, who previously held the position of secretary general for the last decade, a few days ago took the liberty that only Mantashe affords himself to speak. Mantashe attending a wreath laying ceremony of OR Tambo in Wattville Benoni, when he in his address chose to venture an opinion, on a number issues all interrelated to the subject of a recall of a sitting president. Notice we can only call it his commentary since there has not been any official meeting of the newly installed ANC NEC to serve as an official statement. As always I will defend the right of anyone including the ANC leaders to speak, therefore that right is not remotely in question for this musing. Having interacted with Mantashe on many occasions one has a reasonable sense for his intellect and organisational grasp on many things, therefore we cannot spare him the rightful engaging for this his thoughtless statement. I am therefore consciously restricting our attention to the one aspect Mantashe raised since analysing his full commentary would prove lengthy for the many things he said words chosen and deliberate citations on Tambo. That analysis will unnecessarily engage another topic here namely the recall of the SA president the same I am not catering for in this musing Mantashe’s words, the ” we have elected a president who is rich and who has money. He is wealthy. We elected a president who would not steal. If [he] steals we will ask him, ‘why do you steal because you have money’? ” In a moment of exuberance if not buoyancy Mantashe the motor mouth the official former spokesman of the ANC perhaps did not carefully think through what he was going to blurt. Until that moment, Mantashe was the master of what he was going to say, and after he said it he became its captured. Mantashe the former mineworker from NUM, and later Chairperson of the South African Communist Party backgrounds became the last of three consecutive organised labour secretary generals of the ANC, in confidence said we have elected a rich president, with money that will not steal. Mantashe in blissful ignorance or arrogance rubbed our faces in Ramaphosa’s wealth. He does so oblivious or pleading temporal insanity to the reality of the South African society as one replete with the gross disparity of wealth and poverty. He ventures his categorical assertion in boastful brute sense of a celebration of Ramaphosa’s wealth. He most probably will retort there is nothing wrong to celebrate a black man’s wealth. Yet that is not the issue, he proved insensitive to the reality that Ramaphosa’s association with wealth was and remains a challenge for the masses still trapped and condemned as shackled to the demonic triplets of d in as shackled by the demons of triplet demons of unemployment, inequality, and poverty. Mantashe identifies the elected ANC president in three words of repetition ‘he is rich, has money and he is wealthy’. In the English language repetition means emphasis, so his choice of words to describe an ANC president has as emphasis, wealth is the cornerstone. The Cambridge dictionary defines the adjective ‘rich’ “as having a great deal of money or assets, wealthy.” Mantashe having served with Ramaphosa this last five years in the top six and also by extension sharing that undeniable common organised labour history has more than enough means for a vocabulary to describe and define Ramaphosa, then his choice words of rich, money and wealthy. We must admit its the first time an ANC president ever inn its 106 years were define by this means. It is possible that in Mantashe’s logic, the fact that the elected ANC president is wealthy therefore immune to corruption or stealing, should serve as a source of inspiration and peace if not comfort to the poor. Needless to say Mantashe may have had the wealthy concerned business fraternities that often blackmails the ANC in mind. He may have had the vocal chattering middle class with loads of data in mind when he made this statement. We know he could not have attempted to comfort the poor with this statement. We can only deduce that he was in attempt of reassuring South Africans that a wealthy ANC president is a source of comfort for all. He therefore compels us to ask what comfort does the wealth of an ANC president provide for the marginalised and struggling masses? If it was remotely an attempt meant as reverse psychology on which we must ask? With this assertion Mantashe categorically told us the wealthy are immune to stealing, they cannot be corrupted. He inadvertently or without thinking told us in the same breath by implication all former elected ANC presidents in Mandela, Mbeki and Zama left us with less comfort as to their handling of our public purse since they all were not wealthy. The fact that we survived these thee presidents is pure luck because they were not rich. Mantashe will pardon us for reading him an unnecessary zealous defend the president and unwittingly plausibly exposed as not eternalised in a frame of being wealth for his anchor- identity. Mantashe’s logic dictates that the USA Enron scandal never happened. Bernie Madoff’s Ponzy scheme was a movie. His illogic questions a Steinhoff as not remotely possible, the many cases of corruption, (not collusion) unearthed by the Competition Commissions, the Construction corruption scandal around 2010 World Cup infrastructure, the manipulation of the rand by the banks, the daily conniving and corruption by cartels perpetrated by wealthy ones in driven by avarice that steals from the poor is not happening. According to Mantashe’s illogic and paradigm we are all delusional. Mantashe tells us all the cases of wealthy presidents that have ever been accused of stealing from the poor, never occurred because wealthy president are prone to steal. Clearly Mantashe has not understood that greed does not respect economic standing. Perhaps the greatest damage that Mantashe’s statement made was not to Ramaphosa, but to the very SA poor. He not only insulted their collective intelligence but with his blurt he categorised and labelled them as prone and susceptible to steal and by extension open for corruption. Mantashe will off course say he never said that, but he cannot deny he directly implied it since he attempted to justify wealth as bulwark – guarantee not to steal. Is it possible that the wealth ANC leaders acquired in the name of BEE from this apartheid unequal economy inadvertently calibrates their thinking in insensitivity and careless if not recklessness bold statements as Mantashe has shown us? What then does this cul-de-sac oversimplification thinking on leadership with wealth as fundamental attribute depicts of Mantashe’s own prism of wealth for himself, are we to surmise he too is absolved from stealing and corruption only because Mantashe himself is wealthy? After all his now public logic on leadership anchors wealth as the natural antidote for corruption and the rightful guarantee for not stealing. Mantashe was in one-minute, master of his unuttered words but became the captive of the same once they left his mouth and found our ears. Known for his oft diametrically opposed morning and night statements for which he in colloquial sense became christened as mantashing, he has hitherto not yet mantashe’d on his own utterances neither has he retracted what is rightfully condemned in many circles a irresponsible and reckless statement. What then to make of this faux pas? We may never get an apology the poor may never receive an apology from the National Chairperson because such is this ANC political jungle it affords in free for all anyone to speak without consequence because they can. It upholds the principle of a right to a public opinion as sacrosanct. We all seldom pause to think what we have said, in the bigger scheme of things. To lean again on Abu-Talib, one word could bring disgrace and the termination of a bliss.” While conference with its choice for leadership in rejection of slates-of-winners-take-it-all and crystal clear intent of unity pronounced its core policy direction there are those who in the moment fail to pause to let that unity and leadership count when we speak before we had afforded ourselves chance to internalise what we have said.