Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- The African National Congress Veterans League is calling for a Special Consultative Conference in a bid to help the ailing movement regain its footing in society. The League’s president Snuki Zikalala has urged the newly elected party leadership to ensure it happens before the end of February. “We urge the newly elected NEC to consider convening a Special Consultative conference to reflect on the political problems which gave rise to such unprecedented levels of factionalism and find solutions thereto. We propose that the Special Consultative Conference should take place not later than before the end of February 2018.  As the Veterans League we are ready to advance Items of discussion in that Conference,” said Zikalala. “We should make an effort to convince society that we can self-correct and are determined to deliver on our set objectives.” He added that the league supported the conference resolutions of unity and renewal of the organisation. Zikalala said the 54th Conference of the ANC that saw Cyril Ramaphosa elected party leader grabbed the nation’s attention and anxiety. It took place against the backdrop of judicial and political havoc, he said. “This gave rise to the rational fear that the conference might not be held to a successful conclusion.  That it ended the way it did, hiccups along the way notwithstanding, is a testimony to the determination of our members to restore the ANC into a position which earned it the respect of many, at home and abroad. The newly elected National Executive Committee, led by Comrade Cyril Ramaphosa, can count on the support of the ANC Veterans League as it goes about building on the firm foundations of renewal established by the conference.  The aftertaste suggests that we are still mired in troubling times,” he said. The troubling times in question relate to the serious incidents of violent conflict in Kwa-Zulu-Natal; being found wanting when expected to deliver basic health care service to the poor. “The Esidimeni hearing by the retired Judge Moseneke has revealed shocking details of how incompetent, unskilled and non-caring bureaucrats attended to the urgent and basics needs of vulnerable patients. Those responsible should be held to account. We continue to see the smouldering disputes over the authenticity of our membership records which are alleged prone to factionalist manipulation, the credibility of our internal dispute resolution mechanisms have fallen into disuse as members increasingly prefer to use the courts as mechanisms of first instance,” he said. The party was taken to court on various fronts leading to the conference. Some structures were nullified and stripped of voting rights in the conference. In a bid to avoid such occurrences in future, Zikalala has called on the new leadership to be accessible to party members and to attend to issues raised. “Elected leaders must avail themselves for a suitability test done in terms of the ANC document: Through the Eye of the Needle. Urgent steps must be taken to identify information communication technology and management sciences that will enable us to put in place a dependable membership system. Act to urgently introduce a Code of Practice which will enjoin members, including those in state apparatus, to conduct themselves in accordance with the ethics of service to the people. Take urgent steps to forge a healthy functional relationship with our strategic allies the SACP, COSATU, SANCO as well as with organisations of civil society. Take steps to improve the efficiency and efficacy of the Integrity Commission by ensuring that it has the constitutional authority for all its findings to be binding,” he said. Zikalala further added that once the integrity of the membership system has been restored, the party should consider allowing all members of the ANC to participate directly in the election of the NEC. He also called for the reduction of NEC members deployed to government positions. “To preserve the integrity of the NEC, the number of NEC members deployed in Government must be capped.  This will allow the NEC to adequately supervise the work of the deployees,” he said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161