Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- The Democratic Alliance in the city of Cape Town is calling for the removal of Patricia De Lille as the mayor of the city. Cape Metro Chairperson Grant Twigg said De Lille has lost the confidence of the Metro Executive and for that reason, she must be removed. He said the DA prides itself on being a party that represents transparent and accountable governance. “It is therefore important that our leaders represent us in this regard. For us to ensure that the City of Cape Town remains a well-run city, it is important that its leadership maintains the confidence of its party and the functionality of its political caucus. It is for these reasons that the DA Cape Metro Executive have resolved to recommend to the DA Western Cape Provincial Executive Committee, DA Federal Executive and the DA City of Cape Town Caucus that Patricia De Lille be removed as the Executive Mayor of the City of Cape Town,” said Twigg. “Patricia De Lille has lost the confidence of the Metro Executive, the relevant political authority. We are of the view that the City of Cape Town requires stability, unity and functionality – which we believe she cannot deliver.” De Lille has been at the centre of controversy in recent times following allegations of improper conduct. She is under investigation for allegedly ordering the cover-up of serious allegations of misconduct against Cape Town transport commissioner Melissa Whitehead. She has also come under fire for her suggestion of Drought Water Levy to try and restore water supply in the city. Cape Town has been gripped by water shortages with dam levels at an extremely low point. Twigg said the suggestion should be blocked. “To recommend to the DA City of Cape Town Caucus that the proposed ‘Drought Water Levy’ not be supported at the next Full Council meeting. After careful consideration, we have come to the decision that this proposal is not viable and will create an undue burden on ratepayers. We are of the opinion that the city should reprioritize it’s budget as well as actively and robustly engage the National Government on the needs of the City, as water sourcing is their core competency. I communicated our recommendations to party leadership and trust they will act swiftly in the best interests of the organization,” he said. Twigg added that all public representatives are accountable to its party and voters, and as party leadership, they need to ensure that all deployees are acting in the best interests of voters as well as the organization, and not themselves. He said the decision was not taken lightly but it had to be made. “The Metro Executive has not taken these decisions lightly but after careful consideration and deliberation. The City of Cape Town is facing unprecedented obstacles currently and requires strong leadership to ensure we overcome them. Politically we believe these decisions are in the best interest of residents, who we believe should always be at the centre of our actions,” he said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161