JOHANNESBURG, January 29 – The University of Johannesburg(UJ) said on Monday that their 2018 student registrations were going well, and that thousands were ready to attend the orientation programme. “The University of Johannesburg (UJ) is entering its last phase of its registration and is well over the halfway mark with more than 76% of undergraduate students who have already registered for the 2018 academic year – representing a registration pace that is faster than previous years,” UJ said in a statement on Monday. Professor Kinta Burger, registrar at UJ, said the numbers confirmed that the university’s online-only registration system was working efficiently and that it was embraced by the students. “We will be introducing them to the rich array of academic services and support systems offered by the University that will enrich their student experience,” Burger added. UJ said as of Tuesday, the new cohort of first-year undergraduate students would be attending the university’s orientation programmes as part of their transition into the university environment. “The university’s orientation programme, also known as the First Year Seminar (FYS), assists students to transition from high school to tertiary education, while providing them the opportunity to get acquainted with a range of academic development and support services at the university, including the library, writing centres, computer facilities, counselling and career development centres – while also learning about the dedicated team looking after their safety, as well as services available at the health clinics on each campus,” the institution said. Burger added: “As part of the first-year experience, an initiative offering academic skills reinforcement with an accent on students mentoring fellow students is one of the support programmes that helps ease the school-to-university transition. “Student tutors, selected from third-year level and up, do well academically, are good communicators, and are able to identify with students’ needs, act as an interface between students and teaching staff. UJ also introduced academic advisors in UJ’s residences and approved off-campus accommodation facilities. There is a strong focus on tutorials and close monitoring of student performance throughout the semesters to immediately identify students at risk of failure.” The university’s online registration process will remain open until Friday, 2 February 2018. – African News Agency (ANA)