Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- The Economic Freedom Fighters is calling for better crowd control at institutions of higher learning following the Limpopo College stampede that left six injured. Spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said no one should have to lose their lives or experience physical harm seeking an education. “Successive generations of anti-apartheid student activists have already suffered many injuries and loss of lives paying sacrifice for the education of an African child; to have access to quality education in the country of their birth,” he said. “We call on all colleges to ensure order on the long lines of education-hungry youths. We call on them to apply basic crowd control mechanisms like barricades, marshals etc.” Capricorn TVET college on Thursday morning was forced to suspend registration process at its Polokwane campus after six students were injured during a stampede. A spokesperson for the college, Tumelo Morobi said that the stampede occurred when over 1000 prospective students became uncontrollable at the gates. “I just got to the campus and there was an influx of students outside the gate. They were uncontrollable, so for safety purposes as the management of the institution we have decided to suspend registration until Monday because we have about six causalities. The decision is in the best interest of everyone. The injured students were treated at the scene,” he said. Morobi said that the causes of the stamped were still unclear. “It’s not clear what caused the stampede, we will be launching an investigation. Now, we are going to have a meeting with our academic staff,” he said. Despite the stampede, the EFF said it celebrated that the country was ceased with a problem of education-hungry youth; scores of young people who are on the lines for days knocking on the doors of learning. “We admit that it is indeed a problem, but it is problem we must be eternally proud of because instead, we could be dealing with scores of youth dying on the lines of beer halls and drugs. As a matter of fact, many die in our county on the loitering streets of drugs and alcohol abuse,” he said. Ndlozi further praised the party’s Student Command branches for assisting in managing the great numbers of education-hungry youths. He said society must celebrate the EFF SC for its foresight, service and commitment to the poor. “The records of history will show that it was the EFF that led students in scores and scores not only to the economic freedom marches but also to institutions of higher learning to earn an education. We call on all other social institutions and formations to join the EFF and its Student Command by ensuring that the education-hungry youth lining up in colleges and universities are given support. Let us all volunteer in giving them support; let there be water, shade, shelter and food on the long lines of the education-hungry youth, lining up to simply knock at the doors of education institutions,” Ndlozi said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@africanews24-7.co.za 