JOHANNESBURG, January 24 – The woman widely blamed for the deaths of 143 mentally ill patients in South Africa’s Gauteng province on Wednesday threw one her former senior officials in the provincial government under the bus. Qedani Mahlangu, former Gauteng Health MEC (member of executive council) was testifying during arbitration hearings in Johannesburg. She said the tragedy could have been avoided if the former head of mental health in the provincial health department, Dr Barney Selebano, had not provided her with false information regarding the botched transfer of psychiatic patients from the Life Esidimeni facility to NGO’s across the province. Since the start of her testimony on Monday, Mahlangu has maintained that she did not know the NGOs were not fit to for purpose and Selebano misled her to believe that the marathon project was safe. “We probably wouldn’t be sitting here if I had been given accurate information and facts at the time,” she told retired chief justice Dikgang Moseneke, who is chairing the hearings. Mahlangu also implicated Dr Makgabo Manamela, Dr Richard Lebethe and Levy Mosenogi. She said these officials also misled her. Moseneke asked Mahlangu why she resigned if she did not know anything. “I was taking political responsibility. When something goes wrong, politicians resign…. In South Africa that doesn’t happen often,” she said. Mahlangu said she did not want to stop government from doing its work. Advocate Adila Hassim, acting for the Section 27 human rights orgnisation, asked Mahlangu if she was aware of concerns raised by health professionals about terminating the Life Esidimeni contract. The politician said she directed the concerns to Selebano because she believed he was a competent person qualified to deal with matters raised by other colleagues in the medical field. Moseneke put it to Mahlangu that Selebano said the concerns were directed to her and she made the decision to shutdown Life Esidimeni despite several warnings. “Selebano said he did not want this project to go on. He said he was so scared he could never bring himself to say no. He puts the blame squarely at your feet,” said Moseneke “It is absolutely incorrect,” replied Mahlangu. “Why would you kick downwards such concerns addressed to you,” asked Moseneke “Things in government work like that…” she said Mahlangu said at no stage was she aware that Selebano and other officials were scared of her. She says legislation protects administrators from undue influence from politicians. “I know myself to be a very warm person.” Families of the deceased patients, who attended the hearings, screamed and accused Mahlangu of being a liar and a bully. Moseneke interjected and asked the audience to be quiet and let the witnesses give her testimony even though they might not be happy with her answers. Hassim referred Mahlangu to a report by a professor who stated that deinstitutionalisation should not be used as a reason to cut costs as this will have a negative impact on the patients. Mahlangu said no one in the department thought there would be lives lost when Life Esidimeni was shut down. “It is regrettable that people lost loved ones, but it was an unforeseen consequence.” The hearing continues. – African News Agency (ANA)