Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- Umkhonto We Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) has called upon party members to desist from calls for President Jacob Zuma to step down. MKMVA president Kebby Maphatsoe made the statement on Monday following a scheduled meeting of the unit. He said members needed to take heed of the fact that no such call was made during the elective conference where Cyril Ramaphosa was elected new party president. “It must be noted that the National Conference never discussed in any manner whatsoever the recall of President Jacob Zuma as president of the Republic. Instead, what the delegates at the conference explicitly instructed the newly elected leadership to do was work tirelessly for unity,” said Maphatsoe. “We, therefore, call for unnecessary divisive pressure with regards to the future of President Jacob Zuma as President of the Republic of South Africa to be avoided.” His statement was echoed by treasurer Des van Rooyen who said with Zuma being president of the country ad Ramaphosa leading the party was not two centres of power. He said the centre was the ANC and the party itself decides who should lead where. Van Rooyen added that there were instances where premiers were not provincial chairpersons. “There is only one centre and that is the ANC. We can give examples such as in the Eastern Cape where the premier is not the chairperson. Here in Gauteng, the premier is not the chairperson of the ANC in the province,” he said. Reports have been circulating that plans are afoot to have Zuma step down following Ramaphosa’s victory in December. Maphatsoe said Zuma did not deserve to be treated in a current manner. He said the National Executive Committee should be given an opportunity to deal with the matter and other issues of the movement. “In doing so there should be no place for personal vendettas and vindictiveness. It is our considered view that President Jacob Zuma deserves to be acknowledged and respected for the huge contribution that he made in the liberation struggle, and for his many decades of dedicated service in the ANC as well as to the people of South Africa in the various senior positions in government,” he said. Spokesperson Carl Niehaus said attacks on Zuma are not only directed at him but to the movement with the hope of bringing the party down. He said the attacks were driven by forces wanting to see the movement destroyed. He said many should question why the attacks surfaced immediately after calls for unity to rein within the party. Niehaus said it was because a united ANC was not playing to the tunes of doomsayers and those who want to crush the party. “We don’t believe that coincidentally immediately after the conference there is intensified attack on President Jacob Zuma. The unity being forged does not serve the interests of those who want to see the ANC undermined and divided. That is why we are seeing such attacks on the president,” he said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161