Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- The Democratic Alliance is set to lay a charge of incitement of violence with the South African Police Service (SAPS) against the ANC Youth League in Tshwane. The party said this follows a video posted by ANC Youth League Leader Lesego Makhubela on Facebook, calling for a total shutdown of Tshwane on 26 January 2018 and praising the use of petrol bombs in this effort. Reginal chairperson Abel Tau said that was of the ANC’s effort to make the city of Tshwane ungovernable. “The DA will hand the video clips over to the SAPS and request them to immediately charge Makhubela with hate speech and incitement to violence,” he said. “Makhubela’s comments are dangerous and in direct contravention to the Constitution which states that ‘Everyone has the right to freedom of expression which does not extend to amongst others, incitement of imminent violence.’ A call for petrol bombs and the use of violence goes against the struggle for democracy, which sought to protect all citizens from this sort of violent persecution.” In the video, Makhubela told the people who had gathered for the meeting that on the 26th, there would be a total shut down of Tshwane. He said it was not a march, but they would only be going to the municipal offices to collect employment contracts. “We give Solly Msimanga time until the 26th to prepare the employment contracts. ANC councillors will be part of the march. Tshwane will burn on the 26th. We are expecting no less than 20 000 people to attend. We will close the town,” he said. Nowhere in the video does Makhubela mention the use of petrol bombs. He even called on people not burn or destroy infrastructure as it was laid by the previous ANC government. “We are going to fight peacefully. We are not going to burn anything. Those are the things that were built by the ANC. We are just going to remove the DA government, we will make the DA government unworkable,” said Makhubela.  Tau said since taking office, the DA-led administration in Tshwane has been hard at work to bring about real change and the people are seeing the difference. He said it was clear that the ANC also saw the progress that is being made for the people of Tshwane, however, instead of working together to serve the people, they want to resort to using petrol bombs to undermine that progress. “It’s clear that the ANC only cares about feeding itself and not about serving the people. The DA-led administration is undoing ANC corruption and will not be intimidated by threats violence,” he said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161