Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- The Democratic Alliance says Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema should bare the financial brunt caused by party members who attacked H&M stores. DA National Spokesperson and Deputy Chairperson Refiloe Nt’sekhe said while they fully agree that racism is oppressive and has no place in a democratic South Africa, inciting violence and acts of destruction to property must be equally condemned. “The EFF must be held accountable for all the damages incurred as a result of this deplorable vandalism and EFF leader, Julius Malema, must pay back the money for all damages incurred and compensate the employees who had to put in more hours clearing the mess,” she said. “Trashing of stores cannot be condoned as it does not begin to topple the real elephant in the room – racism.” She said the party’s actions proved it did not care about the very same people they claim to be representing. “This violent act clearly shows that the EFF is not genuine in their solidarity with the employees who now might face possible job losses in a country that is grappling with high rates of unemployment and stagnant economy,” said Nt’sekhe. EFF members went on the rampage on Saturday as they protested at different malls, targeting H&M stores. H&M stores were forced to close down after protesters stormed various of its shops in Gauteng. Gauteng police on Saturday said they had received reports of vandalism and looting at various shops in the province. “Several incidents as a result of protests at H&M stores around the province have been reported,” spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said. H&M made headlines earlier in the week when a picture of a black child used as a model was made to wear a hoodie written the “coolest monkey in the jungle”. The company apologised on its Twitter account and said it would investigate the advert. It said it had removed the image from it’s  channels, but also the garment from our product offering. Nt’sekhe said there were other effective and non-violent ways to fight institutional racism and destruction of property doesn’t even begin to solve the problem but compounds it. “The type of disruptive behaviour displayed by the EFF is not the kind of approach we can use to express our disgust over racism. We must fervently resist justifying violent conduct disguised as a tool to fight racism which is still present in our society. The EFF leadership must be held accountable for inciting their members to trash stores. It is acts like these that expose the EFF for what they truly are – short-sighted with no solutions for the issues facing South Africa today,” Nt’sekhe said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161