Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- The Democratic Alliance in the Free State has tabled a motion of no confidence in premier and current ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule. The party’s leader in the provincial legislature Dr Roy Jankielsohn said the DA was of the view that the MONC is a matter of urgent public importance considering the extent of the R220 million Vrede Dairy Project scandal that Magashule is allegedly implicated in. “However, this scandal is but the tip of the iceberg. Other scandals include the Letlaka Media buying scandal, the massive allegations of corruption within the Department of Police, Roads and Transport, the R95 million provincial website scandal, the R120 million Ramkraal Legislature Complex scandal and many more besides,” he said. “The failure in governance under Premier Magashule, specifically with regards to the collapse in local government, the R6 billion Eskom bill, the R2 billion water board bill, the disintegration of the Department of Health, the problems within the Department of Education and the inertia of his government to effectively respond to the provincial water crisis as well as a general regression in audit outcomes, stagnant economic growth and increasing unemployment in the province also warrant his removal from office.” Jankielsohn urged the Speaker to convene a special sitting of the Legislature to debate and vote on the motion of no confidence before the State of the Province Address (SOPA) scheduled for the 20th of February 2018 in Parys. Last week, the Hawks raided the Office of the Premier as well as the office of the Department of Agriculture. Laptops and documents were seized during the raids as law enforcement agencies investigate the extent of State Capture in the country. It is said monies that were meant for the dairy farm were used to foot the bill for the lavish Gupta wedding that was held at Sun City. Jankielsohn said such raids could not have taken place without substantial prima facie evidence that motivates for a search and seizure warrant. “The raids followed the seizure of assets at the Vrede Dairy Farm by the Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) two weeks ago. In addition to the numerous allegations of corruption Premier Magashule is implicated in, the functions of ANC Secretary-General, following his election last year, is incompatible with his constitutionally mandated functions as Premier. Premier Magashule’s announcement that he will resign his premiership at the end of March 2018, the end of the current financial year, indicates that he basically just wants to keep on receiving his massive salary and benefits for as long as possible,” he said. He said the MONC was an opportunity for members of the Legislature to remove a severely compromised premier from office in the interest of the people of the Free State. “It as an opportunity that could see the Free State begin to repair the damage inflicted on the province by the factional and selfish leadership synonymous with Premier Magashule’s tenure. It is an opportunity for a new beginning,” he said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161