PRETORIA, January 4 – Free higher education in South Africa would not be implemented immediately but would form part of a new system that will be phased in over the next five years, Higher Education Minister Hlengiwe Mkhize said on Thursday. Mkhize made this announcement with National Student Financial Aid Scheme of South Africa (NSFAS) CEO Steven Zwane who said that this year, NSFAS would be moving from being a loan provider and into a bursary scheme. President Jacob Zuma announced the implementation of free higher education in December 2017. Mkhize said the phasing in of the new system would allow treasury to formulate and implement a new budget plan. “The policy decision communicated by the president to address funding challenges in higher education is proof that education remains an apex priority of government’s pro-poor policies,” Mkhize said. In 2018, only applicants in possession of a firm offer from a University or Technical Vocational Education and Training (TVET) College will be assessed for funding. “Students who may not have applied at an institutions or NSFAS and are looking for a space in the post school system will be assisted through the Central Applications Clearing House (CACH),” she said. CACH service, which started operating in 2013, is a government online application portal designed for matrics and other citizens who are seeking admission into post-school education. NSFAS has increased the threshold from R122,000 to R350,000 from 2018.  Effectively, changing the definition of the “poor and working class” to include families who were previously side-lined. Mkhize said walk-in applications have been discouraged following incidents at the University of Johannesburg in 2012.  At the time a woman died and at least 17 people were injured during a stampede. Meanwhile, Economic Freedom Fighters leader, Julius Malema has encouraged everyone who is academically qualified to report for registration at their university of choice. – African News Agency (ANA)