Durban, 29 January 2018 – Public order policing units and  Durban metro police gathered outside the headquarters of the African National Congress (ANC) in Durban on Monday morning following intra-ANC protests in the city’s CBD on Sunday. Besides numerous policing vehicles, a water cannon was also parked a short distance from the provincial headquarters on Stalwart Simelane Street, opposite the Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre. According to an ANC official inside the building, the police presence was “precautionary” as ANC members thought to be supporters of former chairman and axed premier Senzo Mchunu were set to protest the interim leadership committee set up last week. The same faction was protesting outside the Durban City Hall on Sunday evening while the interim structure was meeting inside. According to a text message circulated about Monday’s gathering, the protest was in defiance of the  “factional and biased” interim leadership structure. The message said: “We reject the KZN provincial task team. All members of the ANC must assemble at the ANC provincial office in Durban”. The Mchunu faction believes the interim structure is loaded in favour of suspended chairman Sihle Zikalala, known to be an ally of president Jacob Zuma. Although the party’s provincial structure was suspended by the national body following the results of a high court order last year, Zikalala was chosen to sit on the interim leadership structure. ANC KZN stalwart and a former MEC for economic development in the province Mike Mabuyakhulu was announced as the task team’s convener and Zikalala as the co-ordinator. The task team was formed by the ANC’s national executive committee after a 2017 KwaZulu-Natal high court judgement that found the 2015 provincial elective conference was illegal and thus the results null and void. A new conference is scheduled within the next three months. Under Zikalala’s leadership, the province canvassed for Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma before December’s national conference, while Mchunu and his supporters  lobbied for Cyril Ramaphosa, who was elected the new ruling party president. Protesters were set to begin gathering outside the Durban provincial office on Monday afternoon. – African News Agency