Political input by the Secretary General of the African National Congress (ANC), comrade Ace Magashule, during the occasion of the opening of the OR Tambo School of Leadership Trainers Programme held in Orbi Hotel, Johannesburg During this important day of the launch of the OR Tambo leadership school for the training of trainees, we take the opportunity, on behalf of the National Executive Committee of the ANC, to convey revolutionary greetings to all of you gathered here. It is indeed our great honour to be part of this prestigious academy of leadership, named after one of our most revered and outstanding leaders of our National Liberation Movement, Cde President Oliver Reginald Tambo. The late President of the ANC and the longest serving President Cde OR belong to the category of the few but the better, to the galaxy of rare revolutionaries our movement has ever produced. Today we salute his magnificent contribution to the cause of our struggle for the total liberation of our people. We salute his exemplary leadership, his extraordinary commitment and loyalty to our struggle for freedom and dignity for all our people. We take the opportunity to express our profound appreciation to the Chairperson of the Sub- Committee, Cde Nathi Mthethwa, and all its members for the commitment to take the important question of Cadre development and ideological training to the higher pedestal. History shall count you to have been pioneers of political education at the most difficult times when our movement and the people needed it most. We indeed appreciate your collective work and your endless determination to implement the resolutions and all other decisions of our last elective national conference. We are duty bound by the call of history to preserve the character of this glorious movement which itself has become the heritage of the history of the courageous struggle of our people. We also take the opportunity to thank the Rector of the ANC political school Cde David Masondo for his high level of commitment to institutionalise political education within the ranks of our Movement. We agree with him that political education is the nucleus and therefore the lifeblood of any revolutionary movement. It is indeed a heartening truth that without theory and practice, without a rudimentary political education and indeed without ideological and theoretical orientation our national democratic revolution is sterile. Political education remains to be the birthplace of organizational unity and coherence. The task of the Commissariat is to enhance and to elevate the political consciousness of a cadre. Your role is like that of a factory of production of the kind of a cadre our movement and our people need. A cadre who will understand the historic mission of our struggle, a cadre who will serve our movement and the people with absolute love and loyalty, a cadre who is selfless, a cadre with all the commitment to be a volunteer of the struggle for the socio-economic emancipation of our people, and a cadre who will understand the fundamental task of making the world a better place for humanity. During the month of July this year we led a delegation of the National Executive Committee to a groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of the Julius Nyerere School of Excellence in the United Republic of Tanzania. The school will provide cadres from the former liberation movements of the southern African region with the opportunity to acquire political education and other necessary disciplines to build on their human resource capacity. Construction will be finished within the next two years and already preparations are underway to compile the syllabus and other requirements for the effective functioning of the school. Cde David Masondo is amongst those of the technical team comprised of all members of the former liberation movement to look at the syllabus and the operations of the school. There will be an opportunity to members of the ANC to serve as political lectures at the school. Those who are interested will be given an opportunity to apply for this important work. This is a joint initiative between the Communist Party of China and the former African liberation movements. The CPC has undertaken to fund the project to its completion. We are also making efforts to ensure that members of the ANC across all levels are given the opportunity to attend political training in the People’s Republic of China and the Republic of Cuba. This is the programme we have to give all our necessary support. The CPC has agreed to train three hundreds members of the ANC to the various institutions of learning in their country per year and the Communist Party of Cuba is ready to sign a memorandum of understanding with the ANC on similar exchange programmes. We are also planning to make sure that we ask political Commissars from both the Communist Party of China and Cuba, and other progressive movements across the world, to come regularly to our country to interact directly with our branches and membership. We shall also be embarking on the same programme of exchange with the former liberation movements of our region. During the recent meeting of the former liberation movements held in Namibia, the veterans of the ANC, SWAPO, ZANU-PF, MPLA, CHAMA CHA MAPUNDIZI and FRELIMO have agreed to lead this initiative of conducting political education to all members of the liberation movement. This is the reason why some of our Veterans have come to grace this occasion today. Plans are also underway to explore the possibility of building our own political school. But we have to work hard to ensure that we realize this important goal. Of importance is the fundamental truth that we do not have to wait for the building of a political school in order to start political training and education. We can still use our public institutions as platforms to do this critical work. We can conduct political education everywhere, it only needs systematic planning and commitment from our branches and leaders. Today I want to propose that we dedicate one weekend per month as a weekend for ANC political education and training. This needs to be arranged in a more pragmatic and proactive manner, the schools should be conducted in a way that we follow one syllabus at the same time throughout the country. It will be during that weekend that all the leadership of the ANC across the ranks and political commissars are dispatched to do this essential work in order to save our movement. I have on a number of occasions listened to Comrades asking each other as to what are the balance of forces, and most of their answers are that we have more numbers and we are beating the other faction. In other words the balance of forces is no more about the analysis of the domestic and international events, but about how contesting factions outnumber each other during conferences to elect leaders to serve on the leadership of our structures and to be members of parliament and councillors. Our movement is in trouble and if we do not find ways of intervening at this level we will definitely loose it to the hands of opportunists and enemies of our revolution. Political education is the only remedy to preserve the history and the character and posture of our movement. This is the reason why I am proposing to you today that we look at a possibility of dedicating one weekend every month for political education throughout all our structures across the country. We must make this the culture of our movement and therefore the culture of each and every member of the ANC. We want to close our input to you today by invoking political quotations from three leaders of our revolutionary movement Cdes Vladimir Lenin, Mao Tse Tung and Fidel Castro. These quotations are a food for thought but are also important with regards to the cutting edge of ideological and political work to a revolution. Let’s go and synthesize the ideas of these great revolutionaries and see how we relate to them in accordance with our own conditions that we find ourselves in. Today I am giving you some verses from the revolutionary Bible, so to speak, to feed yourselves with. Vladimir Lenin says the following about the indispensable role of a revolutionary theory in an organisation: “The starting point of any revolution rests on the fundamentals of a revolutionary theory and a revolutionary working class party. In its struggle for power the proletariat has no other weapon but the organization, the proletariat can, and invariably will, become invincible force only through its ideological unification on the principle of Marxism being reinforced by the material unity of organisation. the only guarantee that the revolutionary organisation of the working class will not lose sight of the strategic objective or lose its identity as an independent party, is its adherence to and reliance upon Marxism. The role of the vanguard fighter can be fulfilled only by a party that is guided by the most advanced theory”. Emphasizing this Lenin further elaborated on the significance of a revolutionary theory in the struggle of the working class in the following profound way: “Our revolutionary scientific theory is the weapon to make us judge and define the methods of struggle correctly. That is a weapon that helps us analyse and understand correctly the cause of development of human society at every moment, to analyse and understand correctly every turning point of society and to carry out the revolutionary transformation of society”. The founding father of the Chinese Communist Party Chairman Mao Tse Tung, said the following about training those who must take forward the leadership responsibility of a revolutionary movement: “In order to guarantee that our Party and country do not change their colour, we must not only have a correct line and correct policies, but must train and bring up millions of successors who will carry on the cause of proletarian revolution. In the final analysis, the question of training successors for the revolutionary cause of the proletariat is one of whether or not there will be people who can carry on the Marxist-Leninist revolutionary cause started by the older generation of proletarian revolutionaries, whether or not the leadership of our party and state will remain in the hands of proletarian revolutionaries, whether or not our descendants will continue to march along the correct road laid down by Marxism-Leninism. In short, it is an extremely important question, a matter of life and death for our Party and our country. It is a question of fundamental importance to the proletarian revolutionary cause for a hundred, a thousand, ten thousand years. Basing themselves on the changes in the Soviet Union, the imperialist prophets are pinning their hopes of “peaceful evolution” on the third or fourth generation of the Chinese Party. We must shatter these imperialist prophecies. From our highest organizations down to the grass-roots, we must everywhere give constant attention to the training and upbringing of successors to the revolutionary cause. What are the requirements for worthy successors to the revolutionary cause of the proletariat? They must be genuine Marxist-Leninists and not revisionists wearing the cloak of Marxism-Leninism. They must be revolutionaries who wholeheartedly serve the overwhelming majority of the people of China and the whole world, and must not be like those who serves both the interests of the handful of members of the privileged bourgeois stratum in his own country and those of foreign imperialism and reaction. They must be proletarian statesmen capable of uniting and working together with the overwhelming majority. Not only must they unite with those who agree with them, they must also be good at uniting with those who disagree and even with those who formerly opposed them and have since been proved wrong in practice. But they must especially watch out for careerists and conspirators and prevent such bad elements from usurping the leadership of the Party and the state at any level. They must be models in applying the Party’s democratic centralism, must master the method of leadership based on the principle of “from the masses, to the masses”, and must cultivate a democratic style and be good at listening to the masses. They must not be despotic and violate the Party’s democratic centralism, make surprise attacks on comrades or act arbitrarily and dictatorially. They must be modest and prudent and guard against arrogance and impetuosity; they must be imbued with the spirit of self-criticism and have the courage to correct mistakes and shortcomings in their work. They must never cover up their errors and claim all the credit for themselves and shift all the blame on others. Successors to the revolutionary cause of the proletariat come forward in mass struggles and are tempered in the great storms of revolution. It is essential to test and judge cadres and choose and train successors in the long course of mass struggle. Our Party organizations must be extended all over the country and we must purposefully train tens of thousands of cadres and hundreds of first-rate mass leaders. They must be cadres and leaders versed in Marxism-Leninism, politically far-sighted, competent in work, full of the spirit of self-sacrifice, capable of tackling problems on their own, steadfast in the midst of difficulties and loyal and devoted in serving the nation, the class and the Party. It is on these cadres and leaders that the Party relies for its links with the membership and the masses, and it is by relying on their firm leadership of the masses that the Party can succeed in defeating the enemy. Such cadres and leaders must be free from selfishness, from individualistic heroism, ostentation, sloth, passivity, and arrogant sectarianism, and they must be selfless national and class heroes; such are the qualities and the style of work demanded of the members, cadres and leaders of our Party” After the triumph of the Cuban revolution in 1959, Cde Fidel Castro says the following about the importance of the theory of the revolution: “A Revolution is a developing dynamic process. But there is only one Revolution. If it is not a revolution, there is no revolutionary process. And if it stops, it is not a revolution.
If conditions exist to bring about a revolution, then it will continue its uninterrupted march. That is why it goes so far, as only a true revolution can do, because it carries within it the necessary roots for the development of a revolution. If it is a revolution from the first step, it will remain a revolution to the last one”. During his address to the congress of the Young Communist league of Cuba in 1998 Fidel Castro said: We must meet, in the heat of battle, with the leading cadres to discuss, analyse, expand on and draft plans and strategies, to take up issues and elaborate ideas, as when an army’s general staff meets. We must use solid arguments to talk to members and non-members, to speak to those who may be confused or even to discuss and debate with those holding positions contrary to those of the Revolution or who are influenced by imperialist ideology in this great battle of ideas we have been waging for years now, precisely in order to carry out the heroic deed of resisting against the most politically, militarily, economically, technologically and culturally powerful empire that has ever existed. Young cadres must be well prepared for this task. In this ideological struggle, ideas are our fundamental weapons; our most important ammunition are also ideas. We have to arm our cadres with ideas so that they, in turn, can pass these on to the young and to all of the people. This army knows the plan and the strategy; let the enemy learn what these are as it goes along. I am again comparing this struggle to a great battle waged by a vanguard army, an elite troop of the Revolution. I put the Revolution and the Party first; they are, after all, one and the same thing. In a short meeting with the new National Committee, I was able to talk to you more freely as fewer comrades were present, and we could speak even more freely and take up more discussion” Again we take this opportunity to congratulate you for the work well done and hope that we shall continue with the same determination to make political a success story in our movement. We are confident that you shall have a fruitful deliberation during the coarse of the workshop”.