Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- The City of Johannesburg is intensifying its bid to recover monies owed to it by various companies who are said to have been not paying. The city says it has managed to attain commitments from two such companies to pay R55 million by next week. “Yesterday, Operation #BuyaMthetho received a payment commitment worth approximately R55-million from two companies whose accounts are in arrears.  This is by far our biggest success since the operation kicked off two weeks ago,” mayor Herman Mashaba said. “A certain company from the west of Johannesburg owes the City just over R48-million and a higher learning institution from Braamfontein has a debt of R7.6-million. The figures are expected to increase following further adjustments to the two invoices. The R55-million is expected to be paid by the two companies on Tuesday.  If no payment is received, drastic measures will be taken.” Mashaba said he joined the Operation #BuyaMthetho team yesterday (Friday), together with Member of the Mayoral Committee for Finance (MMC), Cllr Funzela Ngobeni and the City Manager, Dr. Ndivhoniswani Lukhwareni to see the sterling work that the team has been doing on a daily basis. Operation Buya Mthetho is a joint operation between all key City departments and entities such as the City’s Group Forensic and Investigation Service (GFIS), JMPD, Environmental Health, Social Development, Infrastructure Services, the City’s legal department, and Development Planning to name but a few, which aims to enforce by-laws and bring the rule of law to the City of Johannesburg. The operation targets properties across Johannesburg that are not paying for municipal services and will be conducted on a daily basis, as a ward based “raid” initiative. Mashaba said since the operation launched two weeks ago, they have targeted over 2000 business accounts that are in arrears; collected over R110 million in cash; identified 12 hijacked properties; and arrested 8 people for illegally reconnecting services that were previously cut off. “The R110 million cash collected has now been secured and these customers will continue to be monitored to ensure that they do not fall back into arrears. We are serious about dealing with non-paying customers including big businesses, government departments, and parastatals,” said Mashaba. He added that residents of Johannesburg will be shocked during the course of the next few weeks when the team continues with the operation of these well-known businesses and establishments that do not pay for services. Mashaba added that instead of coming forward and making payment arrangements, some residents approach their officials to illegally reconnect their services. “I would like to commend those that came forward and paid and those that made payment arrangements with the City. The Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD) has been constantly monitoring properties where services have been cut off to ensure that services are not illegally reconnected.  If they are reconnected the owners will be arrested immediately. I have every faith that the JMPD, working with our law enforcement partners, will do all it can to ensure lawbreakers are held to account,” he said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161