Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- Former president Jacob Zuma’s son, Edward on Thursday said that the ANC national executive committee’s decision to recall his father as the country’s president was unwarranted. Edward’s remarks come after President Zuma stepped down from his position with immediate effect on Wednesday night. “I share the same view with former president Zuma and believe the decision was utterly wrong and baseless, rather it was emotional and driven by so called public opinion which is a fallacy and ludicrous,” he said in a statement. Zuma announced his resignation as the president after the ANC’s NEC decided to remove him from the position. In an interview with the SABC, Zuma also lambasted his recall, describing it as unfair. “The leadership is unfair. I think it’s unfair, it’s wrong. I disagree with the decision taken, It’s baseless. It’s being done in a manner where I feel that I’m being victimized,” Zuma said. Edward said that South Africans should demand the implementation of Radical economic transformation. “I believe we succumb to white monopoly capital and the western agents who are hell-bent in destroying our country and South Africa will never prosper if we still consider ourselves as puppets of the West and ball boys of those in Stellenbosch who have all of a sudden have an interest in the well-being of this country. I understand and am prepared to be victimized by authorities as is the long-term plan anyway however, the people’s voices will never be toned down and the fight for our stolen land and economy is continuing as is. I plead with South Africans to demand Radical economic transformation and taking back land without compensation, settlers should never have peace in our country,” he said. Edward appealed to ANC members unhappy with the decision of his father’s recall not to boycott the party. “We have noted different voices suggesting that following the resignation of JG Zuma the 2019 general elections should be boycotted by some ANC members and supporters who feel disgruntled by his recall. We have also noted comments that aggrieved ANC members must defect to other political parties. We are calling for maximum restraint,” he said. He said that his father should be commended for dedicating six decades of his years to the ruling party. “Following the resignation of JG Zuma, our message to the ANC leadership and membership in general is that we have a responsibility to preserve the legacy of the heroes and heroines who came before us,” he said. Edward also called on members to rally behind ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa’s leadership. He added that members of the Zuma family would be campaigning for the ruling party for 2019 elections. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161