JOHANNESBURG, February 24 – Cape Town City are targeting a fifth win over Bidvest Wits in an Absa Premiership at the Athlone Stadium on Saturday (start 6 pm). In all their four meetings this season, City have been triumphant and coach Benni McCarthy said on Friday his team could see the finish-line getting closer. “That’s why we don’t want to have any dip and mess up all the hard work that we’ve done the whole season. I want to go and make it five out of five,” said McCarthy. The Citizens, who advanced to the first round of the 2018 Caf Confederation Cup after defeating Swaziland side Young Buffaloes on Tuesday, are winless in their last three domestic league games. As a result, City is placed sixth in the league standings with 31 points from 21 games. They are three points behind second-placed Kaizer Chiefs. Meanwhile, Wits also advanced to the next round of the 2018 Caf Champions League after eliminating Mauritian champions Pamplemousses on Wednesday. The Clever Boys, who are undefeated in their last six domestic league games, are placed 11th on the league table with 25 points from 21 games. They are two points behind seventh-placed Chippa United. But McCarthy admits he is never too confident when up against Gavin Hunt. “You know‚ Hunt is experienced and you see Wits are slowly but surely picking up. They are making steps forward down there (near the relegation zone) and they are gaining confidence,” he said. Meanwhile, Wits goalkeeper Darren Keet says they have to find a way past City. “We will be meeting for the fifth time and we must just keep working hard as a team. We are doing well since the start of the year. We need the points and we have to remain positive about getting a win to ensure we keep moving up the log table. Key City player is Sage Stephens. The goalkeeper, who produced a great performance against Chiefs last weekend, was one of the reasons why City did not lose to Amakhosi. Another match-winner is Surprise Ralani. The attacking midfielder is oozing with confidence after scoring his first goal for City against Young Buffaloes in midweek. The 30-year-old will be eager to score again and help the Citizens return to winning ways in the league. For Bidvest Wits, they will rely on Thulani Hlatshwayo. The experienced defender, who has been solid at the back for Wits, is one of the reasons why they are undefeated in their last six league games. Another to watch is Lehlohonolo Majoro. The former Kaizer Chiefs marksman is slowly regaining his old form, having scored twice in his last three league games. The lethal forward will be hoping to continue his scoring form and help the Clever Boys extend their unbeaten run. – African News Agency (ANA)