DURBAN, February 26 (ANA) – South Africa fast bowler Morne Morkel on Monday announced he will retire from international cricket after the four-Test series against Australia ends on April 3. Morkel has played 83 Tests for South Africa since making his debut against India in Durban in 2006. The 33-year-old has taken 294 wickets at an average of 28. He has also played 117 One Day Internationals and 44 T20 Internationals. “It was an extremely tough decision, but I feel the time is right to start a new chapter. I have a young family and a foreign wife, and the current demanding international schedule has put a lot of strain us,” said Morkel in Durban where South Africa are preparing for the first Test against Australia which begins on Thursday. “I have loved every minute that I have played in the Proteas jersey, and I am incredibly grateful to my teammates, Cricket South Africa, and my family and friends for the support over the years. I still feel there is a lot of cricket left in me, and I am excited for what lies ahead,” he added. “For now, all of my energy and focus is on helping the Proteas win the upcoming series against Australia.” Cricket SA acting chief executive, Thabang Moroe, praised Morkel’s commitment and contribution towards South African cricket: “On behalf of Cricket South Africa, I would like to thank Morne for the tremendous and highly valued contribution he has made to South African cricket over the past decade. “He has been a regular selection for both the Proteas Test and ODI squads since 2008, having made his debut as far back as 2006. He has formed part of the golden era of fast bowlers that have made the South African Test team a champion outfit that is respected throughout the world. “Being a champion fast bowler is one of the most difficult professions in the sporting world. It requires tremendous skill, dedication and perseverance and, by no means the least, the courage to bowl through the pain barrier at times. Those are characteristics Morne has shown throughout his career. “Lastly, on behalf of the South African cricket family, our stakeholders and fans around the world, we thank Morne for being both a fine player and an outstanding role model who has made our country proud. We wish him everything of the best in his future endeavours.” ANA