Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- Parliament has been requested to ensure all that all the concerns raised when the Constitutional Court ruled that it had failed to make rules regulating the removal of a President are addressed before a motion of no confidence could be debated. TransformRSA has written to the speaker of Parliament through its lawyers Maubane Mphahlele INC requesting that the set motion of no confidence not be allowed to proceed until such a time that the National Assembly complies with section 237 of the Constitution. “Our Client has a full appreciation of the critical role of Parliament and its activities as it is that arm of State created by the Constitution with a clear mandate of making laws as well as exercising an oversight power over the Executive arm of the State, to hold public leaders accountable. Therefore, an agenda item of a nature of motion of no confidence is of an immense importance to our client,” the law firm said in the letter. The organisation said it wanted clarity from the speaker on whether Parliament, prior to the scheduling of the Motion for 22 February 2018, has fulfilled the Order of the Constitutional Court. The organisation said based on the judgement, the motion required that the National Assembly acknowledges that President Zuma thus seriously violated the Constitution when he undermined the Public Protector’s findings when he failed to implement the Public Protector’s remedial action. “This subparagraph of that notice of motion required the National Assembly to conclude that the President had seriously violated the Constitution in failing to implement the Public Protector’s remedial action. After this conclusion in paragraph 2(2), paragraph 2(4) required that the National Assembly condemns the actions of the President and resolves to remove [him] from office in terms of section 89(1) (a) of the Constitution. This meant that the motion required the National Assembly to first conclude that the President had seriously violated the Constitution, then condemn his actions and, thereafter, resolve to remove him from office. The EFF, UDM, and COPE supported that motion and actively participated in the in the National Assembly. That motion was deliberated and voted upon but it was defeated,” The firm said. The court stated that the National Assembly had a constitutional duty to put in place mechanisms and processes for the purpose of holding the Executive and the President accountable. The ConCourt found that the National Assembly had not fulfilled its constitutional obligation of putting in place the mechanisms and processes for the purpose of holding the Executive and the President accountable, which failure was a violation of the Constitution and therefore invalid. The lawyers asked if Parliament had made those changes before agreeing to the new date for the debate. “It is Our Client’s observation that the National Assembly has been seized with the task of ensuring compliance with the EFF Judgment prior to your public announcement that a Motion is to be tabled and debated in the NA on 22 February. Can you give a categorical answer that the NA has complied fully with the Order of the ConCourt in the EFF Judgment? Our contextual and purposive interpretation of the text and spirit of the EFF Judgment is that compliance duty imposed on the National Assembly with the EFF Judgment refers to three main tasks, namely definition of the concepts contained in Section 89 of the Constitution, determining the rules governing Section 89 of the Constitution and an application of the concepts and newly created rules to an inquiry into a President’s conduct, pursuant to Section 89 of the Constitution. Did the NA fully complete these tasks or alternatively has the National Assembly fully understood these three obligatory tasks, flowing from the EFF Judgment?” The law firm requested that Parliament responds by Friday 4pm. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161