Five police officers killed in Eastern Cape Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- Five police officers were shot and killed in Ngcobo, Eastern Cape after a group of unknown men entered the police station and opened fire. Police spokesperson Captain Khaya Tonjeni said it was a said day for the men in blue. He said the suspects entered the station in the early hours of the morning and fatally wounded three members. “They robbed them of their firearm’s and took two members which they left the station with. They were shot a few kilometers from the station,” he said. He added that the suspects made off with firearms and ammunition from the safe. He promised to have answers for the public before the day ends. An off duty soldier was also shot dead as the suspects were fleeing. The National Commissioner of the South African Police Service, General Khehla John Sitole has strongly condemned the attack on the Ngcobo Police Station. Sitole said the suspects made off with a police van taking when they took the two other members. “The bodies of both these members with gunshot wounds were later found along the roadside, six kilometers from the police station. According to preliminary investigations,  it appears that members were shot execution style. I am appalled and deeply saddened by the cold and callous attack on our colleagues this morning. I have activated a task team comprising of experienced detectives of the South African Police Service and the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation to investigate this attack,” said Sitole. The team will be supported by specialized medium to high risk teams with the added support of the Airwing. “We will not rest until we have tracked down these heartless killers and bring them to book”, added Sitole. The National Commissioner has also called upon the community to assist with any information that could help identify and bring the perpetrators to book as this is a heartless attack on the State. Sitole said while the motive for the attack was not clear, police have have established that the suspects have robbed an ATM a short distance away from the police station, stolen 10 firearms as well as a police van from the station. @karabongoepe1 karabo.ngoepe@africanews24-7.co.za