DURBAN, February 28 – Much of the excitement around the South Africa-Australia Test series, which begins in Durban on Thursday, has to do with the quality pace attack on both sides. However, the four-match series could well see the spinners coming into play more often. Speaking ahead of the opening Test, Dean Elgar, the South Africa opening batsman, admitted that slowing the game down was a good tactic against Australia. “Against Australia, you potentially need to slow the game down, which they probably aren’t used to. So a guy like Keshav (Maharaj) has played well against them in the past, in Australia, so he’ll play a big part in the series,” he said. Nathan Lyon, the Australia off-spinner, added: “I’m expecting flatter wickets than they had for the India series, especially with the bowling attacks floating around, probably the two best bowling attacks in the world going head to head.” While he was hopeful for tracks that had something for the spinners, Lyon was not discounting the effect his team’s pacers would have. “I’m glad I was bowling and not facing them. They’re firing,” he said. “Mitch (Mitchell Starc) is bowling fast, Josh (Hazlewood) is doing what he usually does – doesn’t leave that spot – and Patty (Pat Cummins) looks like he’s bowling fast as well. “We’ve got a great feeling in our bowling unit here coming off a great summer back home. We’ve got a lot of confidence in taking 20 wickets in each and every Test.” While much of the focus is on the bowling, the series will also see some of the best batsmen in the world in the middle. Lyon insisted he was ready for the challenge and talked up his team’s batting. “To be honest, the best batters face me every day in the nets. Bowling to Smithy (Steve Smith) every day is a big challenge, the No 1 batsman in the world trying to take you down.” David Warner, he added, was like an “Energizer bunny”. “He’s running around, it’s great to see. We all know he’s world class, he’s an ‘X’ factor. He’s hit the ball extremely well in the nets. I was just bowling to him and he was whacking me. It’s great signs.” Elgar, meanwhile, was all praise for AB de Villiers, who is returning from injury. “AB even 50% fit is a massive asset to any team. But it’s good to see him fully fit now and raring to go. Even if he’s not contributing with the bat, he’s contributing with the words he has to say in the dressing room. And a guy with that experience and knowledge speaks volumes,” said Elgar. “He’s had some time off now, which always seems to work in his favour. He tends to come back a lot hungrier. It’s good to have him back.” This series will also be the last for Morne Morkel, the paceman who has announced his retirement. “It’s a shock kind of sensation because you don’t expect a guy to retire so soon,” said Elgar, even as pointed out that Morkel has had a long career. “He’s provided South African cricket with 12 years of unbelievable professionalism. The hard work on and off the field is a massive credit to him.” – African News Agency (ANA)