Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- The Hawks and the National Director of Public Prosecutions are still continuing searching for Ajay Gupta who has been declared a fugitive from justice. Hawks spokesperson, Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi on Friday said that Ajay who is on the run was supposed to appear in the Bloemfontein Regional Court on Thursday with other eight suspects linked to the multimillion-rand Estina Dairy Project investigation. Mulaudzi said that the Hawks were not aware if Ajay was at Saxonworld when the Gupta compound was raided in the early hours of the morning on Wednesday. “We had earlier informed his lawyer that we are looking for his client. He was informed. It is understood that he has personal protectors and they are being warned to either hand him over or they might face charges of directly aiding and abetting the fugitive. Therefore, the Hawks are making a public plea to Ajay Gupta to hand himself over to avoid embarrassment. We cannot confirm or deny but there was a bed of a person whom we believe was inside the room, who hastily ran away,” he said. Mulaudzi said that they were not sure if Ajay was still in the country. “We are working from the premise that he is still in South Africa until we satisfy ourselves that he is not in the country, we will search for him until we get him. We appreciate whatever that’s being said but that is a matter that is only dealt with at higher level. For now, we are continuing with our investigations,” Mulaudzi said. Earlier, it was reported that officials at the OR Tambo airport had records showing that Ajay leaving South Africa for Dubai more than 10 days ago. Free State’s Head of the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development Peter Thabethe, Chief of Staff in the Ministry of Mineral Resources Sylvia Dlamini, General Manager for District Services in the Department of Agriculture, Varun Gupta, Ashu Chalwa, Oakbay Investments director Ronica Regavan, former Oakbay Investments CEO Nazeem Howa and Kamal Vasram were all granted bail during their court appearance on Thursday. They are accused of being involved in fraud, theft of state funds and money laundering. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161