Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- South Africa should make concerted efforts to ensure that children from poor families have access to education as this will assist in breaking the cycle of poverty, newly – elected president Cyril Ramaphosa said. In his maiden State of the Nation Address on Friday, the president said that this must begin during childhood development stage. “Today we have nearly a million children in early childhood development facilities. We are seeing improvements in the outcomes of our basic education system. We know, however, that if we are to break the cycle of poverty, we need to educate the children of the poor. We have insisted that this should start in early childhood,” he said. Ramaphosa said that while South Africa was still dealing with several challenges within the education sector, strides have been made over the past two decades. “The matric pass rate increased from 60.6 percent in 2009 to 75.1 percent last year,” he said. Regarding, free higher education which former president Jacob Zuma announced in December last year for poor students, he said that more details on this would be revealed during the budget speech. “Starting this year, free higher education and training will be available to first-year students from households with a gross combined annual income of up to R350,000. The Minister of Higher Education and Training will lead the implementation of this policy, while the Minister of Finance will clarify all aspects of the financing of the scheme during his Budget Speech next week,” he said. Ramaphosa further said that the government would continue investing in education in a bid to improve the results. “Government will continue to invest in expanding access to quality basic education and improving the outcomes of our public schools. There are currently almost a million students enrolled in higher education, up from just over 500,000 in 1994,” he said. He also said that a total of 39,500 bursaries of the Funza Lushaka Bursary programme will be awarded over the next three years. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161