Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- Malusi Gigaba, the minister of finance said the government would generate an additional R36 billion in tax revenue for 2018/19 by increasing the value-added tax rate from 14% to 15%. Tabling his budget speech for 2018 in Cape Town, Gigaba said the government would also generate tax revenue by ensuring a below inflation increase in the personal income tax rebates and brackets, with greater relief for those in the lower income tax brackets. In addition, an increase in the ad-valorem excise duty rate on luxury goods from 7& to 9% would come into effect with an additional higher estate duty tax rate of 25% for estates greater than R30 million. He also announced a 52 cents per liter increase in the levies on fuel, made up of a 22 cents per liter for the general fuel levy and a 30 cents per liter increase in the Road Accident Fund Levy. He also revealed that there would be increases in the alcohol and tobacco excise duties of between 6 and 10%. “In developing these tax proposals, the government reviewed the potential contributions from the three major tax instruments which raise over 80% of our revenue; personal and corporate income tax and VAT. We have increased personal income tax significantly in recent years, particularly at the higher income bands, and our corporate tax is high by international standards. We have not adjusted VAT since 1993, and it is low compared to some of our peers. We, therefore, decided that increasing VAT was unavoidable if we are to maintain the integrity of our public finances,” he said. He further highlighted that the current zero-rating of basic food items such as maize meal, brown bread, dried beans and rice will limit the impact on the poorest households. “Vulnerable households will also be compensated through an above average increase in social grants. Some relief will be provided for lower income individuals through an increase in the bottom three personal income tax brackets and the rebates. In addition to the VAT, we are increasing excise duties on luxury goods and estate duty on wealthy individuals. Taken together, we believe these proposals best protect the progressive nature of our tax regime, to minimize the impact on lower-income households. The National Treasury, in close cooperation with the Reserve Bank, the Financial Intelligence Centre and the South African Revenue Service, is taking several steps to detect, disrupt and deter illicit financial flows. These measures include increasing capacity, coordinating a national risk assessment and improving information sharing between various agencies,” he said. He further commented that in line with G20 recommendations, policy measures to deal with transfer pricing and base erosion by multinational companies are being implemented and continue to be tightened. “Having a sustainable tax base is important to ensure that government has enough revenue to meet its spending needs. Companies can structure affairs to reduce their tax base in South Africa and shift their profits to low-tax countries. This threatens the sustainability of our tax base and is a challenge that most governments are struggling with. The implementation of country-by-country reporting will enable SARS to ensure that companies pay their fair share of tax in SA. We are also investigating options to further curb the practice of excessive interest deductions by companies in order to reduce their tax liability,” he said. He said it is anticipated that by the end of March 2018 over R3 billion will have been collected in respect of the SVDP that have been processed, with work on remaining applications continuing into the new fiscal year. “Measures to approve material cross-border transactions involving state-owned entities will be put in place. The digital economy brings about many technological advances that have led to changes in business models. 2018 Budget Speech 13 Today, we update draft VAT regulations to cover foreign businesses selling electronic services to South African consumers. Working closely with the Department of Trade and Industry, I have approved six special economic zones that will make qualifying companies subject to a reduced corporate tax rate, and enable them to claim an employment tax incentive for workers of all ages. These measures will promote investment in those manufacturing and tradable services sectors that encourage exports, job creation, and economic growth. Working with the Minister of Science and Technology, Government has streamlined the administration of the research and development tax incentive,” he said. Furthermore, aside from raising revenue, the tax system is increasingly required to play a role in protecting the natural environment and promoting sustainable use of limited resources. Parliament is currently considering the draft Carbon Tax Bill, which will assist South Africa to meet its climate change commitments to reduce our carbon emissions, said Gigaba. “The tax will be implemented from 1 January 2019. As with greenhouse emissions, the polluter-must-pay-principle must also apply to other activities which harm the environment, like the dumping of plastics into our oceans and threatening of marine life. Working with the Department of Environmental Affairs, we will shortly publish a policy brief to broaden the scope of environmental fiscal reform, to explore fiscal and regulatory measures to improve water resource management, mitigate the emission of pollutants and encourage recycling to reduce waste, such as plastic, which is polluting our oceans,” said Gigaba. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@africanews24-7.co.za