Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- African National Congress Treasurer General Paul Mashatile has been slated for sharing the party’s situation regarding the removal of President Jacob Zuma with mining bosses instead of members. Party members speaking on condition of anonymity questioned why Mashatile would share such information with outsiders while they were kept in the dark. “We don’t know anything about the process but he goes and shares with outsiders. He must be disciplined for his reckless conduct. We are the ones who were supposed to know the situation ahead of the business people,” said the source. Another source said it was unacceptable for party members to hear about party matters through the media. “That is not how things are done in the ANC. We as members go to conference to elect leaders and come up with policies, it can’t be right that now after coming into power they keep us in the dark and we hear things through the media,” said the source. In a clip that was leaked, Mashatile is heard telling the mining bosses that the party tried to get Zuma to step down as president of the country but he refused.  “Coming out on Sunday night, President Zuma basically said to us: I’m not going anywhere. I’m not convinced by you guys, so I’m not going anywhere. You can go back and report to the National Working Committee and National Executive Committee that I’m not going anywhere,” he said. Mashatile told the bosses that following Sunday’s meeting, a decision was taken that Zuma should be recalled like they did with Thabo Mbeki. The recall was supposed to have happened on Wednesday during the party’s emergency NEC meeting. It was later postponed as well as the State of the Nation Address to allow for more discussions between Cyril Ramaphosa and Zuma. “Our view is that we have a party to run, [a party] that will very soon be in an elective campaign. We don’t want to be dealing with other problems, we have too many of those. What we want to do is make sure we are not involved in motions of no confidence or impeachments that will affect the party. Yes, a motion of no confidence will affect him [Zuma] personally and he is prepared to go through that but we are not and we told him,” he said. Mashatile added that the reason for the postponement of the SONA was because someone who is set to go out can’t table plans for the year ahead as he would not be there to implement the things he will mention. “The one leaving can’t give the message for the future. It’s as simple as that. SONA is about okay guys, here we are and this is where we are going,” he said. Mashatile assured the bosses that SONA would take place within a few days and that it would be delivered by Ramaphosa. He said Zuma was told to hand over the reigns to Ramaphosa. Mashatile was also lambasted on social media, with many calling for disciplinary actions to be taken against him for the speech he delivered. All this time members of @MYANC and the people or SA wanted info on what’s happening to no avail, but @PaulMashatile so it fit to report to the whites? What a damn shame #PaulMashatile what a disappointment — Raphadu Ramahanelo (@Jo3Lopez) February 8, 2018 So #ANCNEC members are just there to rubberstamp decisions already communicated to Monopoly Capital ala #PaulMashatile @tyengeni1954. — Jacques Cupido (@jacquescupido12) February 7, 2018 If ANC had functioning Integrity Commission, Paul Mashatile could’ve been summoned already for bringing the party into disrepute. #PaulMashatile — Afrikan (@IsaacNathi) February 8, 2018  #PaulMashatile did what is not done in many organisations. Unless he was sent to do it. The only way #ANC can solve this problem is to align #ANC and State terms of office, period. — Mmanaledi Mataboge (@MmanalediM) February 8, 2018  @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@18.202.123.161