Staff Reporter A trade mission to promote business engagements between companies in Zambia and in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) will take centre stage in Lusaka, Zambia from the 5-8 March 2018. Trade & Investment KwaZulu-Natal (TIKZN) which promotes KZN as an investment destination and assists local companies to access international markets, is coordinating a group of 12 companies from KZN to explore business opportunities in Zambia. Zamo Gwala: Chief Executive Officer at Trade & Investment KwaZulu-Natal said: “KZN companies are eager to meet with their Zambian counterparts who have a desire to do business and expand trade between the two countries. As part of this trade mission, there will be a business to business session on 7th March 2018 therefore interested entities in Zambia are encouraged to view the profiles of the KZN delegates online and secure their meetings by going to the following link http://www.tikzn.co.za/zambia2018. The KZN delegation will also be provided with an opportunity to conduct site visits to Zambian companies of interest and to visit some key infrastructure sites like the industrial park in Lusaka.” According to the Executive Manager for Export Development and Promotion Unit at of Trade & Investment KwaZulu-Natal, Mr Lester Bouah, KZN and Zambia have the potential to trade at optimal levels in different sectors of the economy especially in the manufacturing space. “There is still work that needs to be done in terms of further strengthening trade and investment relations between our regions, focusing on new collaboration and trade partnerships in key sectors of our economies. Traditionally, trade between South Africa and Zambia has been in favour of South Africa with a focus on electrical and electronic equipment, vehicles, machinery, Iron and steel. However, we continue to encourage bilateral trade and are working on new initiatives in this regard later in 2018 to promote the flow of trade. We are optimistic that this trade mission will provide a platform for such engagements to be initiated,” said Bouah. This trade mission follows a few previous trade promotion engagements between the two regions like the 2013 trade mission which was initiated and led by TIKZN in partnership with the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, in KZN. Then in 2014, six KZN companies participated in the Zambian International Trade Fair in Ndola and in 2015, TIKZN participated in the Outward Selling Trade Mission organized by the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI). We have continued engagements with Zambia by having invited delegates to KZN Export Week held annually in October. This year will be no exception as we will yet again extend an invitation to Zambian delegates to attend KZN Export Week 2018. The KZN delegation will consist of 12 companies and will include the Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DCCI), The South African Footwear and Leather Export Council (SAFLEC) and private companies from the footwear, furniture, automotive and agro-processing sector. “In preparation for this trade mission, TIKZN has had numerous arrangements with the High Commission in Zambia and the Lusaka Chamber of Commerce who are both supportive of this event and will provide coordination support,” says Mr. Gwala.