Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- Giant telecommunications network provider Cell C revealed that its recapitalization programme has yielded positive results which saw the company’s net profit increase by more than 600% to R4.1 billion in its results for the year ended December 2017. The company’s success story in its turnaround strategy is underpinned by last year’s recapitalization of Cell C which enabled the company to create a strong foundation for the business. Jose Dos Santos, Cell C’s CEO said the company’s plan now is to build out its turnaround strategy and accelerate growth and investment going forward. In an interview with Africa News 24-7 dos Santos said the company is coming from a position where it didn’t have access to large sums of funds and had to focus on keeping its existing customer base intact. This meant that the company had the ability to start from scratch with renewed drive and vigour to ensure that they make most of the recapitalization of the institution. Since then, with a renewed team focus to ensure delivery, the company has grown significantly and is fast coming out of the financial doldrums. Operationally, the company continues to provide value-based products and services, and disruption of the market. “Our biggest disruptor for the year was definitely the launch of the company’s entertainment platform, black. The service launched in the latter part of the fourth quarter and we will report numbers later in the year,” said Dos Santos. At the presentation, Dos Santos said Cell C increased its total revenue to R15.7bn from R14.6bn; an increase of 7%. “Cell C’s continued focus on exceptional value and disruptive product offerings, particularly in the prepaid market, has partly led the growth in revenue over the year. Cell C’s MVNO strategy and the growth in the wholesale division has also been a key contributor to revenue growth, with wholesale revenue increasing by 79% to R717 million,” he said. He added: “Data usage per customer continues to grow off the back of the continued decreased cost per MB of data on the Cell C Network, which dropped by more than 36% year-on-year. We are also seeing more customers moving from feature devices to smart devices, partly due to the increased affordability of smartphones, especially company branded devices.” Data revenue increased by 29% and data usage increased by 90% year-on-year. The number of smartphones on the Cell C network increased by 21% year-on-year to 9.2 million devices. Cell C’s current active data customers increased to 12.6 million. “The data growth has largely offset the continued decline in voice based on customers selecting alternative platforms for communication and the effective price per minute also declined by 4% year-on-year. “This decline has become the new normal, and we expect it to accelerate over the coming years,” says Dos Santos. According to data released at the presentation, the company reported a net profit of R4.1bn for the year. This, according to dos Santos was on the back of a reported EBITDA of R7.8bn benefiting from a once-off gain of R4.1bn arising from the recapitalization transaction. “The aim of the transaction was to generate a healthy and sustainable balance sheet for the business and combined with the turnaround strategy, this has been accomplished. The positive net equity of the business of R3.8bn and the reduced debt from R17.7bn to just over R6.8bn are both indicative of the work put into generating a vigorous business. We have also strengthened our top management structure and the team we now have in place to take Cell C into the next few years is exceptionally skilled,” said Dos Santos. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161