JOHANNESBURG, February 24 – The South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) has applauded the police for the breakthrough that resulted in the fatal shooting of seven suspects and the arrest of 10 others allegedly involved in the attack on the Ngcobo police station in the Eastern Cape this week. “We would want to see a prompt resolution of every murder case reported to police in order to have criminals on their back foot,” Sanco national spokesman Jabu Mahlangu said on Saturday. Sanco wished the police officer wounded during the shoot-out with the suspects a speedy recovery. “No hole must be big enough for other suspects that escaped. We urge members of the public to assist police in their follow through operations to ensure that the heartless criminals are also put behind bars.” Authorities also needed to “question church leaders for not reporting the mysterious presence of the men who were sought for the earlier killing of five police officers”, Mahlangu said. Earlier, the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) said seven suspects allegedly involved in the Ngcobo police station attack were shot dead during a shoot-out with a police special task force on Friday night. The multi-disciplinary task team established to investigate the murders of five police officers and a retired soldier at Ngcobo made a major breakthrough when they fatally shot seven suspects in a shoot-out at the Mancoba Seven Angels Ministries Church at Nyanga village, the Hawks said. Hawks spokesman Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said more than 10 other suspects were arrested while others managed to escape. One police officer was wounded and was recuperating in hospital. The task team, which comprises of the Hawks, crime intelligence, the national intervention unit, and the tactical response team, followed up on information of a possible gang that was responsible for Wednesday night’s attack on the police station. “The group, which uses a church as a hiding place, was cornered inside the church premises. A gun battle between suspects and police ensued which left seven suspects dead and a task force member injured in the legs,” he said. An unknown number of suspects managed to escape and police were searching for them. A number of firearms were confiscated, Mulaudzi said. Five policemen from Ngcobo police station were killed on Wednesday night by unknown gunmen who robbed the police station of 10 firearms and fled the scene with a police vehicle they hijacked from two policemen, who they then murdered. The police van was later found abandoned in a ditch off the road a few kilometers from the police station. The five policeman were identified as Warrant Officer Zuko Mbini, 45, Constable Zuku Ntsheku, 38, Constable Nkosiphendule Pongco, 32, Constable Sibongiseni Sodlana, 32, and Constable Kuhle Metete, 27. A retired soldier, 58-year-old Freddy Mpandeni, was also shot dead when the suspects fled the station. – African News Agency (ANA)