Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- President Cyril Ramaphosa drew the line in the sand at his maiden State of the Nation Address which placed economic recovery through foreign investment, Radical economic Transformation and youth development at its core. Speaking for the first time in front parliament in Cape Town, in speech Ramaphosa said government would work towards organising an Investment Conference in the next three months which would target both domestic and international investors, to market investment opportunities in SA In addition, he said the government would address the decline over many years of SA’s manufacturing capacity, which has deeply affected employment and exports. “We will seek to re-industrialise on a scale and at a pace that draws millions of job seekers into the economy. We are going to promote greater investment in key manufacturing sectors through the strategic use of incentives and other measures. To further stimulate manufacturing, we will forge ahead with the localisation programme, through which products like textile, clothing, furniture, rail rolling stock and water meters are designated for local procurement. We have already spent more than R57 billion on locally-produced goods that may have been imported from other countries,” said Ramaphosa. Furthermore, he highlighted that Special Economic Zones (SEZs) remained an important instrument that will be used to attract strategic foreign and domestic direct investment and build targeted industrial capabilities and establish new industrial hubs. He further stated that the process of industrialisation must be underpinned by transformation. “Through measures like preferential procurement and the black industrialists’ programme, we are developing a new generation of black and women producers that are able to build enterprises of significant scale and capability. We will improve our capacity to support black professionals, deal decisively with companies that resist transformation, use competition policy to open markets up to new black entrants, and invest in the development of businesses in townships and rural areas,” he said. He further explained in his speech: “Radical Economic Transformation requires that we fundamentally improve the position of black women and communities in the economy, ensuring that they are owners, managers, producers and financiers. Our most grave and most pressing challenge is youth unemployment. It is, therefore, a matter of great urgency that we draw young people in far greater numbers into productive economic activity,” explained Ramaphosa. He further took a hard-line stance, suggesting that young South Africans will be moved to the centre of the country’s economic agenda. “They are already forming a greater proportion of the labour force on our infrastructure projects and are the primary beneficiaries of programmes such as the installation of solar water heaters and the war on leaks. We continue to draw young people in far greater numbers into productive economic activity through programmes such as the Employment Tax Incentive,” he said. He further explained that working in partnership with business, organised labour and community representatives, the government would create opportunities for young people to be exposed to the world of work through internships, apprenticeships, mentorship and entrepreneurship. “Next month, we will launch the Youth Employment Service initiative, which will place unemployed youth in paid internships in companies across the economy. Together with our partners in business, we have agreed to create a million such internships in the next three years. If we are to respond effectively to the needs of youth, it is essential that young people articulate their views and are able to engage with government at the highest level. I will, therefore, be establishing a Youth Working Group that is representative of all young South Africans to ensure that our policies and programmes advance their interests,” he said. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161