Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG – ANC Member of Parliament Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma says there is no truth to reports that she is fatigued and wants to quit the National Assembly. “Dr Dlamini Zuma vehemently denies false and fake news reports  on her fatigue and resignation from the South African Parliament as contained in the Sunday Times and other publications reports of 18 February 2018,” her representatives said in a statement on Sunday. The response follows reports by the Sunday Times that sources had claimed she was ready to quit. According to the report, Dlamini Zuma apparently told the president that she wants to quit as a National Assembly member. Dlamini-Zuma has however refuted the report. She accused the publication of spreading fake news about in the past. “Dr Dlamini Zuma has also noted with displeasure the several fake news stories carried by the publication in the past, some of which have received a sanction against the publication from the Press Ombudsman. Her appeal is that in conducting its duties the publication should in the least do so in a balanced manner and offer her the right to response at a minimum,” her people said. They added that Dlamini-Zuma wished to reemphasize that she remains at the service of South Africa as a member of the South African parliament, and no fake news would dissuade her from her duties. “Dr Dlamini Zuma remains a loyal member of the ANC collective as a branch, NEC and NWC member and no mischievous attempts of wedge driving will persuade her out of the movement she has dedicated almost all her life to. Dr Dlamini Zuma is full of energy and is neither resigning nor fatigued,” they said. She also took to twitter to challenge the article. In her post, she said: “Fake news. Imagine crossing boarders by foot to join arms struggle as a teenager then all of a sudden be too tired of Parliament? Never. I don’t quit. Also, these journalists were with me in Parliament on Friday, why didn’t they simply ask me to fact check?” @Karabongoepe1 karabo.ngoepe@africanews24-7.co.za