Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- Moving into 2018, the government said it would fast-track land redistribution to redress “grave historical injustices” and bring in more producers into the agricultural sector to ensure that land is available for cultivation. In his first speech to delegates in parliament and South Africans, Ramaphosa said the agricultural sector presents one of the greatest opportunities to significantly grow the economy and create jobs. “Agriculture made the largest contribution, by a significant margin, to the improved growth of our economy in the second and third quarters of 2017. This year, we will take decisive action to realise the enormous economic potential of agriculture. We will accelerate our land redistribution programme not only to redress a grave historical injustice but also to bring more producers into the agricultural sector and to make more land available for cultivation,” he said. Furthermore, Ramaphosa said he would pursue a comprehensive approach that makes effective use of all the mechanisms at government’s disposal. “Guided by the resolutions of the 54th National Conference of the governing party, this approach will include the expropriation of land without compensation. We are determined that expropriation without compensation should be implemented in a way that increases agricultural production, improves food security and ensure that the land is returned to those from whom it was taken under colonialism and apartheid,” he said. He said the government would undertake a process of consultation to determine the modalities of the implementation of this resolution. “We make a special call to financial institutions to be our partners in mobilising resources to accelerate the land redistribution programme as the increased investment will be needed in this sector. Tourism is another area which provides our country with incredible opportunities to, quite literally, shine,” said. He also touched on the tourism sector, highlighting that there was enough potential to ensure double growth levels in the sector. “Tourism currently sustains 700,000 direct jobs and is performing better than most other growth sectors. There is no reason why it can’t double in size. We have the most beautiful country in the world and the most hospitable people. This year, we will enhance support for destination marketing in key tourism markets and take further measures to reduce regulatory barriers and develop emerging tourism businesses. We call on all South Africans to open their homes and their hearts to the world,” he said. He further commented: “Our prosperity as a nation depends on our ability to take full advantage rapid technological change. This means that we urgently need to develop our capabilities in the areas of science, technology and innovation. We will soon establish a Digital Industrial Revolution Commission, which will include the private sector and civil society, to ensure that our country is in a position to seize the opportunities and manage the challenges of rapid advances in information and communication technology. The drive towards the digital industrial revolution will be underpinned by the availability of efficient networks.  We will finalise our engagements with the telecommunications industry and other stakeholders to ensure that the allocation of spectrum reduces barriers to entry, promotes competition and reduces the cost to consumers,” he said. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161 