Zodidi Mhlana An investigation into allegations of sexual misconduct at the Reiger Park Secondary school has revealed that there was a “fraudulent activity” regarding the resignation of the school’s former principal. The former principal who was caught on camera performing sexual acts with pupils resigned from his position in October 2016 and his last day at the school should have been January 15, but a week later he had not vacated the position. “The Investigations revealed that the principal was still on active duty well passed his ‘resignation’ date. In that, he signed off on annual leave forms for his staff members, and he answered his office phone of the 22nd January.  A number of legal avenues have been identified and the department is looking at the best course of action to take, without further disrupting the schooling process at the Reiger Park Secondary School (RPSS),” a letter from Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi to the school stated. A probe into sexual misconduct that rocked the school has been concluded, the Gauteng education department said. “The investigation has established some fraudulent activity by an official in the district to legitimize the resignation by the principal. Due to this fraudulent action, the principal is deemed to have resigned in October 2017, with the last day of work being the 15th January 2018. As a result, the department cannot act against the principle unless it challenges the whole process of his resignation and request a court to set aside his resignation,” the letter to the school stated. The department said that it would be taking disciplinary actions against its official involved in the resignation saga. “Due to the cost of bringing a court challenge and the uncertainty of a victory the Department has decided to bring charged against the District official. The necessary paperwork is being prepared to ensure that this official is suspended,” it said. The education department appointed an independent law firm to conduct a full investigation into allegations of sexual misconduct that surfaced at the school in January this year. The probe was established after photographs and videos of school principal engaging in sexual intercourse with pupils emerged. The former principal was reported to the South African Council of Educators (SACE) so that his name could be struck off the educator’s roll. Two educators including a deputy principal have been suspended. The department also said that the two pupils who appeared in the videos and photographs matriculated in 2009 and in 2015. “These former learners and their families did not come forward for any assistance. The Department is still on record to offer any psycho-social support. The interviews carried out by psycho-social sections have revealed that no learner currently in the system have been sexually abused by the principle or any members of the RPSS staff,” the letter said. Provincial education department spokesperson, Steve Mabona declined to comment on the report “the investigation has been completed and we will pronounce on the findings of the report. We are now interacting with the stakeholders.” @Mhlana