Zodidi Mhlana The Department of International Cooperation (Dirco) said that it would intervene in the matter of a South African man who was sentenced to death by hanging in South Sudan once his trial has been concluded. Dirco’s spokesperson, Nelson Kgwete said: “We are still waiting for him to decide whether he will appeal or not. Our intervention will depend on the final verdict. We don’t interfere in the legal process, part of his defence was that he was never part of any team that tried to overthrow the South Sudan’s government. He has been convicted of trying to overthrow the government in a coup. He was given a death sentence last week, from the date of that judgement, he was given 15 days to appeal the sentence.” This comes after the family of former South African National Defence Forces (SANDF) colonel John William Endley – who was sentenced to death by hanging in a court in South Sudan’s capital Juba last Friday – has written to President Cyril Ramaphosa asking for his urgent intervention at the highest level. Endley was convicted of conspiracy and attempting to overthrow the government during his Friday court appearance. “We are overwhelmed both financially and emotionally. This whole episode is a nightmare from which we have yet to wake,” Endley’s sister Charmaine Quinn said. “Our mother is 77 years old and this has taken an enormous toll on her health. We also feel William has been treated very unfairly,” said Quinn. “Our advocate, who is a human rights lawyer, stated that the whole trial was a mockery of justice due to the irregularities involved and the fact that due procedure was not followed,” she added. Before his arrest, the 57 years- old worked as a senior security consultant to South Sudan’s former-vice-president-turned-rebel-leader Riek Machar, whose forces have been fighting a civil war since 2013. Kgwete said that South African officials were contact Endley during his trial period. “Our officials have been attending all his court appearance. They are contact with him and we are in touch with his family in South Africa. It’s too early to tell whether the trial was fair as the matter has not reached conclusion. We still need to see what his legal advisers have to say,” he said. In addition to the charges of conspiracy and the supply of weapons the South African national was also charged with espionage, waging an insurgency, sabotage, terrorism and illegal entry into South Sudan. Endley was arrested in August 2016 and first appeared in court on February 13. The family has been given 15 days to launch an appeal. “Our advocate is busy getting all the documentation together for the appeal,” said Quinn. According to the family, Endley has also been treated poorly during his incarceration. “He is suffering from malnutrition and recurring malaria and we’ve also struggled to get access to him,” she added. With African News Agency (ANA) 