Karabo Ngoepe JOHANNESBURG- Speaker of Parliament, Baleka Mbete has set a date for a motion of no confidence debate in President Jacob Zuma. Parliament spokesperson Moloto Mothapo on Friday said Mbete had written to the Economic Freedom Fighters informing them that the debate was scheduled for February 22. “In her letter to the EFF, Ms Mbete informed EFF leader Mr Julius Malema that she had decided to schedule their requested motion of no confidence in the President for 22 February,” he said. “The determination had taken into account the Programme of the National Assembly, including the State of the Nation Address, debate on the Address, the President’s reply to the debate and the tabling of the national budget on 21 February. Ms Mbete had also consulted relevant stakeholders.” Mothapo further indicated that Mbete had written to the leader of the Democratic Alliance (DA) and the leader of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) about their requests related to the forthcoming State of the Nation Address. The two parties had requested that the Sona be postponed until Zuma is removed from office. They wanted the monition of no confidence to be tabled before Sona. “In her letter replying to the DA leader Mr Mmusi Maimane’s request that the State of the Nation Address be postponed, Ms Mbete explained that the President, as head of State and Government, had exercised powers vested in him in terms of the Constitution (section 84(2)(d), read together with Joint Rule 7(1), when he called on Parliament to convene the State of the Nation Address. The Joint Programme Committee had also further ratified the convening of the Address, at its meeting on 16 November 2017. The Speaker, therefore, had no power to accede to the DA’s request to postpone the State of the Nation Address, scheduled for delivery to a joint sitting of the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces on 8 February. Joint sittings were also matters of concern to both Houses of Parliament,” he said. @karabongoepe1
karabo.ngoepe@africanews24-7