Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- The Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) has called for unity within the ANC after president Jacob Zuma was compelled to resign by the ruling party yesterday evening. In an emotional statement to the press, organisation reiterated that it would continue to speak in one voice with the ANC would serve to protect the mother body’s leadership. Carl Niehaus, the spokesperson of the MKMVA The organisation welcomed Comrade Zuma’s disciplined commitment to the prescripts of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, with the regards to both the election and departure of the President of the Republic. He suggested that the ANC should never allow whatever political battles we engage in to supersede the interests of the people. “We should never ever forget that, and as comrade Zuma admonished us we should not play into the hands of our oppressors of yesteryear. To our minds this is especially true and applicable with regards to the continued grip of White Monopoly Capital (WMC) on our economy and their continued exploitation of our people. All of us as members of the ANC should therefore never allow ourselves to become divided and consequently weaken our ability to implement in full the resolutions for Radical Economic Transformation (RET) that were adopted by our 54th National Conference at NASREC in December last year,” he said. The movement said it is now emboldened and encouraged by the example of the life of Jacob Zuma who at a very young age joined the ANC and dedicated his youth and whole adult life to the liberation struggle. “In this regard it is apt to refer to the included African National Congress media statement which describes the singular dedication with which Comrade Zuma worked for the liberation of our people, and the many sacrifices that he made – among those we must never forget that he served a 10 year sentence on Robben Island as a political prisoner for his membership of the African National Congress and specifically for his excellent work as a Commander of Umkhonto we Sizwe in setting up underground structures of MK, and very successfully intensifying the armed struggle against the apartheid regime. “Comrade Zuma’s indomitable spirit was not deterred by prison and he proceeded even more successfully with his tasks as an MK Commander immediately after he was released from prison. We will not forget that there were few Commanders of MK who were more successful than Comrade Jacob Zuma, and that he was hugely feared by the Boers. As the ANC statement correctly points out Comrade Zuma is the last of our line of Presidents to have worked closely with the longest serving President of the ANC, Comrade Oliver Tambo, and he was one of Comrade OR’s most trusted advisors and comrades,” said Niehaus. Commenting on the merits of Zuma’s resignation, Niehause said Zuma played a critical role to ensure that internationally South Africa became a major player, with BRICS as critically important for the advancement of South Africa as part of the community of developing nations. He lauded Zuma for rolling out the massive infrastructure investment programme implemented during his tenure, which helped to sustain growth during a period of international economic downturn. “It was also under President Zuma’s stewardship that our country recorded significant successes in education, which included the expansion of access to basic and higher education for the poorest of the poor. We believe that one of the most significant steps that Comrade Zuma took as President was his announcement of fee free higher education for the poor and the working class. This was a bold and courageous step which will no doubt remain as one of the best parts of his substantial legacy,” he said. He further commented: “We also understand that his strong overall stance against White Monopoly Capitalism (WMC), and for Radical Economic Transformation (RET), made him the prime target of the vicious propaganda of the mainstream media who are ultimately owned and controlled by the White Monopoly Capitalists. They conducted nothing less than a vicious and bitter personal vendetta against Comrade Zuma. When Comrade Zuma was President of the ANC and President of the Republic MKMVA defended him against these vicious attacks. Now that he has resigned we will still continue to defend him as a highly respected MK Veteran and member of the ANC against these media kangaroo courts.” Niehaus stated that the MKMVA would also fully support the newly elected leadership of the ANC and Cyril Ramaphosa, to ensure that he implements Radical Economic Transformation. He also added: “MKMVA wants to warn against any form of triumphalism within the ANC, or in general in our country, concerning the resignation of Comrade Zuma. As loyal members of the ANC we will vigorously defend Comrade Zuma against vindictive attacks and humiliation similarly as we would do for any member of the ANC. As MKMVA we want to reiterate that Comrade Zuma is one of our very own, and we honour and respect him as one of our finest Commanders. The MKMVA unequivocally supports the clarion call by Comrade Zuma that no life should be lost in his name, and that the ANC should never be divided in his name,” he said. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161