Two dead, dozens injured in DRC clashes JOHANNESBURG – At least two people were killed in the Democratic Republic of Congo’s capital Kinshasa and the western city of Mbandaka, and more people were injured after clashes between security forces and protesters. $0.5 billion raised for Sahel multi-national military operation JOHANNESBURG – International donors have raised half a billion dollars for a multi-national military operation in West Africa’s Sahel region. The funds will go to the G5 Sahel force, made up of troops from Mali, Niger, Chad, Burkina Faso and Mauritania. European Union foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini confirmed the figure during a conference attended by about 50 countries, including the United States, Japan and Norway on Friday. Bidvest appoints new CFO, half profit rises 12 percent JOHANNESBURG – Trading, distribution and services group Bidvest has approved the appointment of new Chief Financial Officer Mark Steyn form March 1. Steyn will replace Peter Meijer who is retiring.  The company also reported that its headline earnings per share rose 12.5 percent to 574 cents per share in the six months to Decemer 2017 and its trading profit grew 12 percent to R3.1 billion. Sasol says HEPS up 17 percent, current economic climate volatile JOHANNESBURG – Global integrated chemicals and energy company Sasol has said that its headline earnings per share rose 17 percent to R17.67 in the six months ended 31 December 2017. The company has also declared a dividend per share of R5.00, up four percent from the previous comparative period, and revealed that it has invested R681 million in skills and socio-economic development. Nigerian air force supporting hunt for kidnapped schoolgirls JOHANNESBURG – The Nigerian air force has deployed additional air assets to the north-east of the country to help search for 110 schoolgirls missing after an attack on their school last week Monday by suspected members of Islamist militant group Boko Haram. Second time lucky for KwaZulu-Natal furniture design student JOHANNESBURG, February 26 (ANA) – Lwazi Mshibe who is studying towards a Bachelor of Technology Interior Design Degree at the Durban University of Technology has won the student category winner at the 5th annual furniture design competition awards held at the Homemakers Expo in Johannesburg from September 22 to 25. Mashie won the competition after entering it for the second time. The dti supports SA firms to exhibit at Ghana international trade fair PRETORIA – South African Department of Trade and Industry has expressed their support for a 20-strong South African delegation to Accra Ghana for the Ghana International Trade Fair in Accra from February 28 to March 7. The delegation consists of companies specialising in agro-processing, chemicals, clothing and textiles, forestry, furniture, creative industries, built environment, and capital equipment. Mother-tongue language rolled out to 250 schools in Western Cape – DA JOHANNESBURG – More than 250 schools across the Western Cape will teach their learners in their mother tongues after reports have shown that students learn best when taught in their mother tongue. Former Madagascar president wins African political leadership award JOHANNESBURG – Madagascar’s former president, Marc Ravalomanana who spent more than five years in exile in South Africa after being deposed in an illegal d’état, has been nominated as African Person of the Year 2017 for Political Leadership. He was honoured by African Leadership Magazine at an awards banquet in Sandton in Johannesburg on Saturday night.