A string of events paints a picture of hard liners in control and decisive leadership glaringly absent It’s hardly a month since the ANC’s 54th Conference, where the opportunity for unity and renewal became central themes of an exacted mandate to the Ramaphosa led leadership. How did the ANC get to where it is with the hardened positions made public and disagreements more real? Someone will say that is a rhetorical question, yet I pose it because there is a litany of actions following the Conference that perhaps confirms the divide continues. Perhaps one must first appreciate that contrary to popular belief the 54th Conference did not attain unity, it created the conditions for unity meaning the opportunity for such unity and renewal. We all knew that the factionalised interests along the influence capital are more than real, and when the last song was sung at Conference those divides were still there contending, with the conditions for unity in the room.  We are told nature affords no vacuum, I thought of this as I attempted making sense of the ANC in its actions of January 2018.  It appears that the current tone is set by the retaliatory hardliners on both sides of the unity family. The ANC unfortunately is not at this stage coherent in its leadership articulation on what this transition means. The ANC is not synchronized in its core expressions of leading the conversation as to what is next and how that is unfolding.  On one hand as led by the ANC president we hear a transition defined in smooth handover meaning that for the balance of the Zuma term there will be structured interaction to ensure that the party and state is on the same score in governance of an SA, since there is common acceptance of one centre and that being the ANC. We heard this from the mouth of the ANC president who sprightly informed us that all is well between him and the President Zuma, that they given their positions have agreed to a weekly Tuesday meeting to ensure the transition is smooth. Until then, it all seemed handled and the leadership of the ANC under Ramaphosa appeared in control of its mandate. Now it appears the centre is not holding.   Ramaphosa as ANC president is further on record for having pleaded that the future of President Zuma be dealt with in no frame of embarrassment, this may be his heart towards this situation however the hardliners of the CR 17 Campaign has different minds on this.  Then came Davos, South Africa sent a delegation to the winter playgrounds of the super wealthy led by the ANC president, we are told we wowed the world who stands ready to book their tickets to come and invest In Madiba-land.  I have consistently asked where is the empirical evidence for the claim that Davos in the last 15-20 years has delivered any investment in SA, yet that is a topic for another day, it seems more correct to instead take a trip to Franschoek to engage apartheid’s benefactors on why they refuse to reinvest in the land that made them super wealthy, yet that is a topic for another day.  However, while the SA delegation was out of the country on the home front a cohort of CR17 Campaign comprising hardliners decided to demand that SONA 2018 address be done by the ANC president instead of the SA president.  This theme quickly picked up momentum and had the opposition parties re-echoing it. Ramaphosa’s claims of a smooth transition were now overtaken by the demands of the hardliners, supposedly analysing the balance of forces concluded it may be right to throw down the gauntlet. In fairness it is difficult to categorically accuse the ANC president as the epicentre of the decision of the hardliners, what is challenging is Ramaphosa’s posture post the position of the hardliners. He certainly can be critiqued for that. In all elections when a certain candidate succeeds he does so by the support of others who at some point will demand their proverbial steak.  Ramaphosa could have shown leadership to address the CR17 hardliners in the demanding they afford him respect and space to continue with his smooth transition trajectory.  On another level, Ramaphosa’s direct contribution to the current impasse and entrenched positions is perhaps his utterances at Davos. He was cited in two core interviews, the CNN Amanpour interview baited him to express views on corruption, where he claimed he ran his campaign against corruption. I had wanted the president to say all ANC campaigns were run against corruption, to share the ANC 54th conference resolutions and all other before on corruption. Ramaphosa’s BBC interview was even more pressing since he categorically stated that President Zuma is anxious on his exit. These interviews indirectly or directly joined the dots from the hardliner demands of a SONA2018.  Ramaphosa now became swallowed by the CR17 hardliners and their demands. He appeared to have rushed home in what was reported as him readying himself to come and fire Zuma to ensure he does the SONA 2018 Address. Right here Ramaphosa inadvertently gave impetus to the NDZ hardliner position, who heard him imply their campaign was for corruption. The NDZ campaigners have long resolved they will keep the ANC president and leadership accountable on the resolutions of conference and will raise their challenges at the slightest attempt of sweet talk of conference resolutions are made.  The attitude in demand of the CR17 hardliners stirred more than the ire of NDZ supporters, for the first time in the serving DSG Jessie Duarte’s tenure she sharply deferred with the ANC president.  Her City Press interview was categorically clear that there was never a NEC or NWC decision to engage the president on his stepping down or that neither of the structures were ever informed of any anxiousness on the part of the President Zuma, therefore the views shared by Ramaphosa were his own.   Needless to say, this interview emboldened the growing voices of the NDZ hardliners who already were not taking the idea of a hijacked SONA lying down. We now had a contradiction in ANC position on President Zuma’s future in public space. Ramaphosa a leader did not clear this mess up.  The next move came as a huge surprise to all, the Hawks who is active in its investigation on state capture with the Vrede Dairy Project in Free State, has been in  public domain for a while.   What was surprising was that we heard the Hawks launched a search and seizure operation at the vacating office of the Free State premier Ace Magashule who is the elected Secretary General. In a democratic country like South Africa where the rule of Law remains respected we may never conclude that the actions of the Hawks were informed by political manipulation by any particular faction in this ANC tennis volley of hardliners.  However, in the world of factionalised politics the interpretation of this in public space was now read as another salvo of the CR17 campaign hardliners.  Clearly annoyed by this, the Secretary General Ace Magashule last weekend addressed a rally in Pietermaritzburg, what some have understood to be attended essentially by NDZ supporters. Magashule threw down the gauntlet, as he took the fight to those whom he called – want to scare him out of his position as Secretary General. Magashule went on offensive in retaliation attack and left no doubt as to where he was taking his fight in person. Meanwhile deputy president of the ANC DD Mabuza aka Unity Mabuza, who is also vacating his chairperson seat in Mpumalanga confirmed his unwavering support for Ramaphosa as president. Notably is his choice of words, ‘Ramaphosa is safe next to me…’ We not sure if this means Mabuza who stands accused of having redirected the Conference presidential outcome with himself as the true centre, is saying to Ramaphosa as long as you stay with me you are safe or do not come after me, I am your protector.  One of the fundamental lessons of warfare dictates that one engages in one fight at a time. We all recall Napoleon learned that lesson in a hard way.  Mabuza therefore is not out of the woods for it appears those who set their sights on having Ace Magashule removed from SG position may eventually also come for him. Unrelated though, Mabuza meanwhile is dealing with his own challenge of a temporal interdict brought by a businessman, Frederik Coenraad Daniel from Badplaas for harassment and intimidation.  Mabuza’s premier office confirmed he will challenge the interdict.  Yesterday Bheki Cele fired another in this volley of hardliners, he aimed his bow at SG Magashule, it is clear the hardliners are dictating the space and the centre is not holding.  While the ANC leadership are in sixes and sevens with hardliner positions confirming the trenched realities of an organisation that struggles to let the conditions of unity and renewal count, it fails dismally in leadership of clear communication. We are treated to a flurry of confusing doublespeak on the task assigned by the National Working Committee to the Top 6 in regards to meeting with President. The ANC National Chairperson of the ANC Mantashe was at pains to explain that the meeting of the Top 6 with President Zuma was not about asking him to resign. Yet on the other hand media reports run fast and wild on the opposite being the case. Listening to the Treasurer General Paul Mashatile you hear nothing but the hardliner position since he contradicts other members of the officials.  What suffered in all of this is basic coherent, consistent and clear communications on the much-needed transition. An innate weakness of the ANC in crisis has always been its challenge to communicate in setting the tone for others to follow. The ANC easily gets overtaken by personal opinions of leaders as its official position. As leading party, it never leads the discourse but finds itself playing catch-up. As things stand now, the DA has sent an official request to the Speaker of Parliament to request the postponement of SONA 2018 till a new president is elected. The EFF has equally tabled a motion for February 22 and it has threatened to be up to its usual parliament kindergarten tricks come SONA 2018 on February 8.  A cohort of Opposition have gathered and is public on the SONA 2018, when the ANC is absent in the conversation when it is supposed to lead such. This while the ANC Top 6 will only meet this weekend with President Zuma. We are treated to individual opinions parading as the official position.  We can confirm UNITY is heavily sedated on life support in the intensive care unit sent there by hardliners who dictates the run of play in the ANC. We need leadership that is clear that can nakedly and without fear engage the hardliners on both sides of the divide, in demand to let the resolutions of Conference count.  It appears whatever the outcomes of pre and post SONA 2018, the centre of the ANC is not holding and this leadership will have a rough ride into 2019. If they fail to quickly arrest this situation, the ANC would have spent as usual unnecessary energy on internal issues and may prove battle fatigue come 2019. We will watch this space, truly nature affords no vacuum – what is needed is ANC leadership and such appears elusive.  Clyde N.S Ramalaine Political Commentator and Writer