Zodidi Mhlana North West university on Monday said that it has provided the police with information that might assist in apprehending a group of ten white students who severely attacked long distance runner Thabang Mosiako in Potchefstroom last week. Mosiako, 22, who is the 5000m South African national athletic champion was left unconscious and hospitalised after sustaining a head injury during the racial attack. When the assault occurred, Mosiako was with two friends, Ranto Mokopane and Sandy Londt at Varsity Café in Potchefstroom last Sunday. Police are yet to make any arrest. NWU spokesperson, Louis Jacobs said that the institution had been contact with Ranto who sustained minor injuries. “The incident came to our attention last week Monday and immediately our protection services were alerted. We are trying to get any possible information, some information has been shared with the police, we want to determine if indeed that our students were involved in the attack. No one has been arrested. If it’s been verified that our students were involved, we will take disciplinary actions against them,” Jacobs said. Ranto told Potchefstroom Herald that the assault started when some of their assailants began insulting the cashier. “I intervened and asked them to stop swearing at the lady. When I went outside, the group had multiplied and there were about ten rugby-bodied men who started attacking us,” Ranto said. He said that the police assaulted them, instead of protecting them when they arrived at the scene. “The police came and stopped the fight but, to add salt to the injury, the police targeted us and started beating us with batons as if we were the ones who were in the wrong. We felt discriminated against. We fled the scene and, on the way, we saw another police van and humbly asked the officers to escort us to the campus because we knew our attackers would come back. The officers refused,” he said. Ranto said that the attackers who were hiding in the bushes continued assaulting them later. “There were a lot of them and we did not stand a chance. The two of us fled and the attackers all started kicking Mosiako on the head and body while he was on the ground. I saw one taking his head and repeatedly bashing it against the ground. When they saw the police were coming, they fled, leaving the unconscious athlete on the ground,” Ranto said. Political parties have condemned the racial attack calling on police to apprehend the perpetrators. EFF said that this showed that racial attacks were prevalent in towns such as Potchefstroom. “We further call on black communities to form people’s policing forums to ensure that they hunt and bring these racists to the book. All black people, particular students of the surrounding colleges and universities in Potchefstroom must unite against white racism by constituting policing forums to police anti-black racism. No white man must lay a hand on black people anywhere and not meet the consequences of their brutal action,” EFF spokesperson, Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said. @Mhlana