PRETORIA, February 26 (ANA) – The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) on Monday said National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams has made a decision on whether former President Jacob Zuma will face corruption charges, and is ready to announce the decision. That announcement, however, will be put on ice, for a few weeks at least, owing to an agreement between the NPA and civil society organisation the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution, which binds Abrahams to give two weeks’ notice to Casac before announcing the much-awaited decision on the Zuma charges. “We have advised Casac that the NDPP has made his decision and will honour the two-week arrangement in terms of which he undertook to notify them before he announces his decision,” NPA spokesperson, Advocate Luvuyo Mfaku told the African News Agency (ANA) in Pretoria. “The two-week period will lapse on the 15th of March.” On Friday, Mfaku said Abrahams had received recommendations from his prosecution team on whether Zuma will have his day in court on the near decade-old corruption allegations. “The NDPP has received the memorandum outlining the recommendations of the team, he will peruse it and advise on the way forward in due course,” Mfaku said at the time. Zuma filed papers with the NPA on January 31, in which he gave reasons why he should not face fraud and corruption charges. The NPA had set an initial deadline of November 30, but after a request from Zuma, the former president was granted a seven-week extension. On November 30, South Africa’s biggest opposition party, the Democratic Alliance (DA), filed papers with the NPA outlining why 783 counts of corruption, fraud, money laundering, and racketeering against Zuma, should immediately be reinstituted. The Supreme Court of Appeal last year refused the NPA and Zuma leave to appeal a high court ruling which set aside the 2009 decision to drop the charges which relate to South Africa’s multi-billion rand arms deal. Zuma, 75, resigned as President of South Africa on February 14, under severe pressure from his party, the ruling African National Congress, bringing an end to his nine scandal-riddled years at the Union Buildings in Pretoria. – African News Agency (ANA)