Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- The ANC and its alliance partners have thrown their weight behind the Venezuelan government, condemning United States aggression and calling for an end of the latter’s attempt to undermine the South American nation’s sovereignty. In addition, the party and its alliance partners have committed to coming up with relief projects that will alleviate the negative impact of VAT and fuel increases that rocked South Africa recently. In a late afternoon media release on Tuesday, ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said the Alliance Political Council, which met for the first time since the party’s 54th National Conference that took place last year, reaffirmed the ANC’s position to drive its National Democratic Revolution into a new trajectory for radical socio-economic transformation. “The political council took place against the backdrop of events of much political significance in the country and the world. The meeting received a delegation from the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela led by the foreign minister Jorge Arreaza and the deputy minister for the African affairs Pimentel Yuri. The meeting expressed solidarity with the people of Venezuela against the US led aggression which seeks to undermine her sovereignty,” he said. Mabe said the ANC would work to foster relations with the socialist party of Venezuela and other progressive forces of the Latin America and the Caribbean region. Mabe explained: “The purpose is to foster our common efforts of solidarity and internationalism to bring the unity of the struggles of our two people. The meeting discussed a wide range of issues of far reaching political and socio –economic importance with the primary objective of consolidating the unity of our revolutionary Alliance at all levels.  The revolutionary alliance took cognizance of the balance of forces in the world and its influence on the direction and the pace of our Revolution.  This amongst others included the analysis of the heightening offensive by the USA led right wing triumphalism and its adverse consequences on the stability of the world economy.” In addition, the Political Council said it would strengthen South – South relations and reconfirmed the need to strengthen BRICS community of nations. “The Council raised concerns about the socio-economic challenges confronting our country which include job losses and the rise in the cost of living. In this context the meeting resolved to do everything to cushion ordinary people against the impact of the deepening economic crisis, part of this will include a need to work with the economic cluster on finding ways to introduce relief measures against the VAT and fuel price increases. Part of this work will be integrated into the preparations towards the jobs and financial sector summits,” said Mabe. The party also proposed an alliance led economic summit, which will be held at the end of October this year. “The focus of this Summit will be to discuss the economic policy trajectory of South Africa and will look at issues such as; public transport in particular the passenger rail transport. Taxation focusing on VAT, zero rated goods and fuel, energy security: energy mix. The health system: Implementation of the NHI and fuel price increases and the general rise in the cost of living. We will also look at the Mining Charter and Mine Safety Matters. Land Redistribution and the Fourth Industrial Revolution and its impact on the future of work,” said Mabe. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@africanews24-7.co.za