Phumla Williams The question of what difference one person can make is regularly asked.  Those who ask this often do so to absolve themselves from making a difference. Such defeatist attitudes are sadly all too common and lead to a larger feeling of malaise and helplessness. We can ill afford this, certainly not when many women and children are faced with violence and abuse, often at the hands of those they trust.  When you realise that your silence can condemn a woman or child to unimaginable horrors you quickly realise that the actions of one person can irrevocably change lives. Your actions can stop a women being raped, or a child being abused.  Standing up and making a difference is the one thing we can all do.  Our continued silence is not an option, and this July on Tuesday the 10th men from all sectors of society will rise to the challenge of making their voice and actions count.  As part of the centenary celebrations for former President Nelson Mandela and struggle stalwart Mama Albertina Sisulu, government and various social partners will hold a national #100MenMarch to stop violence against women and children.  It is well established that the voice of men is crucial in ending the scourge of violence and abuse.  Critics will of course say, but what can 100 men do?  My response is that even one determined person can make major changes within their sphere of influence or in their communities.  On 10 July 100’s of men from various groupings, and sectors of society, such as government, business, labour, faith based organisations and non-profit organisation will march to represent their sector.  Their united actions, voice and their determination to motivate others to end violence against women and children, will ensure their voice carries way beyond their numbers.  Every person who stands up to help break the culture of silence that accompanies violence and abuse is an agent of change. By committing to non-violence and acting when we see violence against women and children, we begin to undo the cycle of abuse.  The main event in Pretoria on 10 July 2018 will raise awareness on violence against women and children. Various organisations, including men and boys will add their voice to the fight against violence in homes, communities and the workplace. The march will begin at Church Square at 10h00 and end at the Southern Lawns of the Union Buildings by 13h00. In the run up to the march South Africans, particularly men from all walks of life are encouraged to join in the conversation on Twitter using the hashtag #ThumaMina #100MenMarch.  You can also declare your support for the march and your attendance through posts and videos on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. In addition, you can sign the online pledge affirming your support for no violence against women and children – https://www.gopetition.com/petitions/100-men-march.html. Government and our social partners are hopeful that the march will ignite a national conversation on the scourge of violence and abuse.  But more importantly we are hoping to inspire change. Together we can ensure that our 100’s of voices, turn into thousands and then tens of thousands.  Eventually this one action can turn into an unstoppable force for change and renewal. Earlier this year President Cyril Ramaphosa challenged us all to be the change and to respond to the call of Thuma Mina.  The call to “Send Me” undoubtedly means different things to all of us, but it also asks all of us to do something to make a positive change. The answer to the question of what difference one person can make is therefore really easy?  One determined person can change the world and when we act in unison we can bring about real and lasting change. Now is the time for all of us to act. Our actions will ensure we prevent these abuses and create an environment where women and children live free from violence. By publicly declaring that enough is enough we can begin to undo the cycle of violence that often passes from one generation to another. Men especially have a vital role to play in mentoring and teaching young boys to always value and respect young girls and women. It is also essential that community members who have information or any knowledge of abuse report perpetrators to the police. We must not let closed doors in our homes become prisons for women and children. All too often we read about or see stories of neighbours who heard the shouting or screaming but who did nothing.  Doing nothing or assuming that someone else will act is no longer good enough. When you turn a blind eye you are knowingly condemning a women or child to further abuse or even worse.   In the year that we celebrate the centenary of Nelson Mandela and that of Ma Sisulu this is simply not good enough. These icons of our liberation struggle knew instinctively that they had to be the change. They have also shown us the power of individuals in bringing about change. Let us therefore become part of the movement of change and say “Send Me”.