ANC leadership at diverse levels remains the number one target as accused in corruption in our daily discourse. does the party’s inconsistent and questionable support for its cadres attest to ambivalence and expediency? Hitherto, the ANC has failed to engage in a coherent, consistent and sustainable manner its dictate for support and what that support means. It would appear that the ANC lacks a uniform and clearly articulated response and often instead its responding to these allegations underpinned by the cancerous factionalism that plagues the organisation.  The fundamental challenge the ANC faces on this score is that it must develop a consistent, defendable ethic and praxis for support or not of its own when they are accused and tried by the media. It warrants a sustainable approach for even those who faced a court and was either guilty or acquitted. It must engage why that support is conveniently in some instances automatically translated to support of corruption. The accusations of corruption are not new. It is often used as tools in political contestation of a balance of forces.  We will recall the same accusations were levelled against ANC leaders in another epoch of an arms-deal corruption claim.  In the same week of the Nelson Mandela centennial celebrations we again heard former ANC Member of Parliament now residing in the UK, Andrew Feinstein, on Modise Network continue his claims of a corrupt arms deal and how the Seriti-Commission instituted by President Jacob Zuma was used to whitewash these claims. Back then the media reports aided by people like Feinstein traced these corruption claims to the highest level, where both Mandela and Mbeki were not spared.  The Sunday news reports indicate that the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal “has resolved to engage the highest decision-making body of the party‚ the National Executive Committee (NEC)‚ to review its decision not to support former president Jacob Zuma in his corruption case”.
This came in the aftermath of the ANC Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal provincial conferences that pronounced on thier respective elected leaderships outcomes.  Let us then first congratulate the two provinces for staging successful conferences and electing their respective leaderships. We also must bemoan the fact that the ANC internal elections remain defined by a questionable African/Black and patriarchal male dominance. Perhaps a subject for another day.  To underscore the ambivalence of the praxis of support we will remember that on May 17, ANC Northern Cape Provincial chairperson, Zamani Saul, maintained that his predecessor, John Block, is innocent, despite being found guilty of corruption and money laundering in the Northern Cape High Court in 2016 relating to government leases that were awarded to Trifecta. Saul stated that they were waiting for the outcome of the ruling of the Supreme Court of Appeal on the matter.  Zamani’s exact words, “We wish him all the best and we continue to support him. He was a capable leader of the ANC.”  This support shown here appears both commendable and questionable. Commendable since it evokes cadreship beyond the weakness of a common humanity. Questionable because a court has pronounced in guilty verdict, which Block has taken on appeal. Some would argue that if the ANC is serious about dealing with corruption it cannot be seen to be supportive of convicted criminals.  It gets more complicated when we do not hear Saul or the ANC extend that same innocence to, for example, former president Zuma whom no court has yet found guilty in pronouncement.  The ANC’s undeniable double standards of practice does not just show this dualism for separate individuals it can even be for the same person. The ANC has previously committed its support for Zuma on the same charges. The same charges in this epoch it now distances itself and proverbially washes its hands from. We are bound to ask what changed that the ANC can flip-flop on its support?  On the eve of the NPA’s decision and now historical action to prosecute former President Jacob Zuma on a 13-year-old allegation related to arms deal corruption claims, the ANC NEC took a decision that it would not outrightly endorse the support of Zuma and warned members not to display ANC regalia when they as individuals choose to show up. We recall how on March 19, national spokesman Pule Mabe said: “The NEC of the ANC elected in 2017 at the 54th Conference does not have a formal position or conference resolution on attending to court proceedings of individual members, and that will remain the preserve of individuals.”  Some of us condemned the ANC’s dualistic stance as not consistent and empty of true leadership to imbibe a celebrated cadre ethic.  Fast track to this weekend’s election contests and the ultimate results of ANC leadership teams for Gauteng and KZN.  These included names of some already tried in the media and found guilty on corruption, others brought before a court and out on bail.  Among others ANC MEC for Economic Affairs, Lebogang Maile who contested for a position, though on another slate, was accused in the media for having dished out R29-million tender in favour of Pule Mabe’s company. However,, Maile was actively participating and contesting in the elections which he narrowly lost to Panyaza Lesufi for the position of Deputy Provincial Chairperson.  On the same elections the names of Provincial Chief Whip Brian Hlongwa who also was on many instances accused and tried by the media for corruption allegations, declined nominations for certain positions. So was the name of former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu appearing on lists during the PEC conference, though she declined. Mahlangu remains infamous for the Life Esidimeni debacle that left over 140 mentally ill patients dead. She resigned as a result of the publicised scandal. The same tragedy that caused some to call for Makhura’s head, yet he was retained and never owned up to his role. In KwaZulu-Natal the new deputy provincial chairperson Mike Mabuyakhulu, who was also provincial convener in the run-up to the conference, beyond media claims, was brought before a court and is out on is R50,000 bail after being arrested for corruption of over R28-million on allegations of misuse of state funds.  On the same score, KZN cooperative governance and traditional affairs MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube was also retained as the provincial treasurer over the weekend. Again, she – according to media – was also allegedly involved in corruption in the Nkandla and Mthonjaneni municipalities worth millions of rands. We can also extend this dualism of incoherent support praxis to a national level. The ANC and SA deputy president David Mabuza remains accused over an extensive period by the media for corruption and murder crimes. According to the media, Mabuza is not fit to lead in the office he currently occupies.  On the national front former Deputy Minister of DIRCO and ANC Western Cape Provincial Chairperson Marius Fransman was accused of sexual misconduct that never featured in any court, and through a comedy of errors are today in a political wilderness.  This, while the ANC Western Cape Secretary Faiez Jacobs – charged for violence against another comrade – survived and still serves as provincial secretary. Mduduzi Manana, famous for his violence against women, was re-elected to the NEC. He is currently embroiled in another woman abuse scandal – with his personal domestic aid who accused him of violence and threats.  We see this inconsistent praxis again and again if we consider the case of Mcebisi Jonas. Jonas remains publicly accused of corruption at the time of serving as MEC for Economic Affairs of the Eastern Cape government, with over R500m in questionable transactions at the Eastern Cape Development Corporation (ECDC) and later the Mandela funeral funds mismanagement, as carried in the media. Instead Jonas is promoted to be a presidential economic envoy.  Jonas is held up us as moral beacon.  In the first quarter of 2017 ANN7 now Afroview TV broke an exclusive story of  questionable R4.5bn internal audit queries at Treasury which took place under Pravin Gordhan’s watch, making him answerable. Malusi Gigaba during his stint as finance minister undertook to get clarity on the issue. Nothing has come of this so far.  Bheki Cele in 2012 was relieved of his position as Police Commissioner due to a damning report of the Public Protector on the leasing of police headquarters which was questioned for flawed and a questionable process activities.  Cele in this season is promoted to police minister and threatens Niehaus how he will sort him out at the funeral of Zuma’s son.  The ANC spokesman in this era Pule Mabe stands accused of serious corruption as covered by the same media. Recently the Mail and Guardian ran a story on him, yet Mabe is serving and not being asked to step down.  We still do not know what ANC chairperson and former North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo did, that he was forced to resign. We do not know if there is a case of corruption where he was found guilty. What we do know is he was hounded out of the North West premier’s office until we hear the United Nations is now part of fixing the provincial challenges. If Mahumapelo was asked to step down for the health scandals among others, what then exonerated Gauteng’s David Makhura whose province had an Esidimeni murderous scandal?  SARS Commissioner Tom Moyane faces three enquiries and is found guilty by the same media while engaging in a disciplinary hearing. Hitherto there is no criminal case.  On the other hand, Carl Niehaus against whom the NPA has never laid any charges, is regularly referred to as a fraudster by the media. Tried by the media he is concluded as corrupt and guilty when no court has ever entertained any case in a verdict on him.  These cited examples are hardly aimed at finding anyone guilty. It is merely to ventilate and show an ambivalent and glaring unsustainable ethic as practised by the ANC. A praxis that confirms expediency where some are made demons and others accorded angelic status.  Hitherto the case can be made that the ANC practices double-standards when dealing with corruption and or scandals facing its high-profile members. Nobody has been fired for bringing the organisation into disrepute.  Based on the names of the people who were involved in the election processes in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal, it appears the ANC is not afraid to enlist individuals whose names are tainted by corruption allegations. Whether these individuals got elected or not, is besides the point. It presents another reason why the ANC must develop a concise and clear position on support for ANC leaders and cadres because increasingly many more ANC members are being targeted by media in guilty verdicts. Yet, we hear that the ANC is in the process as guided by its adopted resolution on Organisational Renewal of cleansing itself by dealing with corruption. Public evidence suggests otherwise – the organisation continues to hog front pages of Sunday newspapers for the wrong reasons. The truth is none of the conflicted individuals was ever shown the door by the ANC. It is as if the ANC waits for others to lay criminal charges then reacts to these again in the frame of a chequered factional stance of us and them.  Besides the reactionary response of a recent firing of Errol Velile Present, an ANC employee allegedly involved in cash heists, the ANC is reluctant to pronounce decisively on scandalous behaviour. On this record of questionable ethic, it appears Present will be able to make a case of unfair dismissal on the part of the ANC.  The proverbial elephant in the room remains why the ANC changed its stance on supporting Zuma when it already in time past on the same charges resolved to defend him? How does dealing with corruption become only understood as singling out Zuma and those claimed to be his supporters, while others in similar – if not worse – situations are rewarded with top positions and guaranteed unrelenting support even beyond guilty verdicts?  Herein lies the nagging contradiction and unsustainability of this dualistic ethics. Equal to Mahlangu, Mabuyakhulu, Hlongwa, Maile, Jonas, former president Zuma hitherto was not found guilty of any wrongdoing by a court of law.  However, supporting him conveniently suggests for some a defiance of ANC values and by extension translates to supporting of corruption.  Perhaps what is needed is an unequivocal and consistent firm policy position on individuals allegedly embroiled in scandals. This may assist in restoring public faith in the ANC.  What is currently unfolding is a politically factionalised praxis of support for cadres, hardly a 106-year-old organisation that leads on a consistent ethic of its cadres.  By Clyde Ramalaine and Motapo We’Zigidi