MOSCOW, Russia, July 15 – Like the Wimbledon final earlier on Sunday, it was not a day for the underdog as France held off a brave challenge from Croatia at the Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow to triumph 4-2 in the 2018 World Cup final. Les Bleus, who won the 1998 World Cup on home soil after having beaten Croatia in the semi-finals 20 years ago, took a 15th-minute lead through a Mario Mandzukic own goal before Ivan Perisic leveled the score 13 minutes later. A controversial penalty in the 38th minute from Antoine Griezmann allowed France to take a 2-1 advantage into the interval, with goals from Paul Pogba and Kylian Mbappe stretching their lead further before Mandzukic got a consolation in the 69th minute. The opening 10 minutes from both sides were tentative, and even though Croatia spent a large position of that time in their opponents’ half, they were unable to mount any kind of threat on goal. Indeed it was from the first chance of the contest that the deadlock was broken as Griezmann’s in-swinging free kick skimmed off the head of Mandzukic and into the net. The Croatians, however, have shown themselves in this tournament to have plenty of courage and after they had come back fighting from the setback, it was 1-1 after 27 minutes when Perisic slammed home a clinical half-volley after France had been unable to clear their box. The pivotal moment of the evening came 10 minutes before halftime when a Griezmann corner struck Perisic on the hand, and after taking his time to view the Video Action Replay (VAR), Argentine referee Nestor Pitana pointed to the spot. It was the tightest of calls, with several of the replays suggesting Perisic had been hard-done-by, although one particular angle from behind the goal hinted that the Inter Milan man may have flicked out at the ball. Nevertheless, Griezmann held his nerve to slot home a cool penalty to restore Le Bleu’s lead. Again though their opponents wouldn’t lie down and Dejan Lovren had a shot blocked by Pogba before Domagoj Vida missed a headed chance as Croatia upped their efforts in the minutes leading to the break. There was more from Croatia just after the break when a storming run and ferocious drive from Perisic forced a world-class save out of Hugo Loris as he tipped the ball over the bar. France knew they need another goal and when Kylian Mbappe enjoyed his first real run of the night, it took a sharp save from goalkeeper Danijel Subasic to keep out the 19-year-old on 57 minutes. But just two minutes later Subasic found himself beaten after Pogba calmly curled the ball in with his left foot after his initial shot had been blocked, 3-1 on the hour mark. That became 4-1 just five minutes later when a superb run from Lucas Hernandez down the left flank saw him picking out Mbappe on the edge of the area, the PSG striker drilling home a low and unstoppable shot into the corner of the net to become the second teenager after Pele to score in a World Cup final. Croatia, whose three knockout matches had all gone to extra time, were however given new life when Loris got far too casual at the back, trying to side-step Mandzukic, only for the Juventus forward to get an in-block which deflected the ball into the goals. There was an Ivan Rakatic shot shortly afterwards which was dragged marginally wide, but apart from that, Croatia struggled to create the chances they needed to save the game as France comfortably made it through to full time to claim the glory in Moscow. – African News Agency (ANA)