“It looks like elections politics is forcing President Ramaphosa on his knees before Zulu royalty” – Clyde Ramalaine Africa News 24- 7’s anchor analyst answers some questions on the ongoing land question and its evolving dimensions. The land question and its accompanying national conversation manifested in vaults of volatile jolts. This week it was deflected to focus on land in the control of the Ingonyama Trust with the single custodian and guardian being the Zulu Monarch, King Goodwill Zwelithini. For an extended period of time, it appeared as if the ANC was going to give effect to a bill that was published in 2017. The said bill would transfer the control of land chieftaincy to ordinary people. We lived through a week of engagement, threats, as always anger and ultimately reassurances offered that the land under the Ingonyama Trust will remain as is. Land is and remains an emotive subject. We know that because every gathering on land as seen in the current Constitutional Review of section 25 for land expropriation is overshadowed by the same emotions that usually end in threats and wild claims. There are those who argue it was a deliberate effort by those opposed to the review of the constitution to deflect the land question. By Saturday the President who was in KwaZulu-Natal for the launch of his Thuma Mina campaign paid a personal visit to the King to reassure His Excellency the ANC and his government distances itself from the Motlanthe Report. The president went further to commit that the land currently under the control of the trust will remain and there was no resolution to have the trust dissolved. Meanwhile, the EFF also appears to have moved to a softer approach to its demands that land be under community control instead of chiefs or royalty. It succeeded to convince Contralesa to support its demand for land to be controlled by the state.   The fundamental objective of the exercise and its ultimate report was the review of a vast amount of legislation produced since 1994 to ascertain its diverse impact and practical presence in a functional sense. Land redress in its multifaceted expressions of adopted legislation, therefore, was not exempted from the work of the panel. Land tenure, land ownership in its various definitions coursing a known contradictory context of urban, rural and peri-urban settings constitute legislation adopted, meaning land legislation was not exempted from this investigation. A simple answer is it derives its legal standing from its original mandate as explained.  The Ingonyama Trust came into existence on the eve of the 1994 elections. It was established with an administrative functionary role acting as an instrument to control 30% of KwaZulu-Natal land under the auspices of traditional leadership. We know that the trust collects in annual rental income close to R100m for various portions of land it continues to lease to a cross-section of land users. The Ingonyama Trust as an administrator of land also registers a unique presence as only occurring in KwaZulu-Natal. All other provinces do not have such a structure. A dipstick assessment will advise that no province has an equally defined structure equal to the Ingonyama Trust.  The subject of legal standing vacillates on how and who commissioned the report. The report’s standing is directly derived from the fact that it came about as initiated by one of the three spheres constituting the state – namely parliament. It has legal standing for the fact that it was duly constituted with a clear and concise scope. Its legal standing, therefore, is not in question. While it has legal standing, we must not confuse that with it being binding. Like any report at that level, it comes with a set of recommendations which ought to be engaged by its principal.  The personal comments of the leader of the panel, namely former caretaker president Kgalema Motlanthe, in this regard remain unfortunate perhaps even stupid. He also in the aftermath stands accused of having shown scant regard to engage the king of the Zulu kingdom. Unfortunately, his comment clouds more than help matters. In that regard it remains unfortunate as a personal opinion perhaps shared in arrogance, if not a sense of a superior mind. It is perhaps a matter of semantics. What is undeniable is Motlanthe led the panel that compiled the final report. Perhaps it would become increasingly important to let the report stand in its own shadow for what it produced as a necessary tool of assessment since it is tainted by the unfortunate remarks of its leader. It may become important to disassociate the person of Motlanthe from the actual report. At this rate, the report – which contains a volume of substantial and core information on a history of legislation development in democracy – is a necessary tool if SA is serious about engaging the variety of subject matters.  Perhaps we must free the report from the unfortunate statement of the head of the panel and engage the content for what it is. The nature of who Motlanthe is in SA and the ANC naturally renders him a public figure but he is also considered in some circles as a controversial character. It is for this reason that deliberate focus should placed on the content of the report as opposed to the personality of Motlanthe or anyone associated with the development of the final report. Motlanthe has a right to his opinion on any matter and must be afforded the space to air his views as much as he has to accept that his view may be challenged and questioned from time to time. Unfortunately, the details of how much was spent on the report as it relates to a set figure are not known to me. That should not be considered as a deliberate attempt to argue that such information is kept away from the public. I am sure the budget of the exercise can be ascertained.   In a democratic society where the hope to function in an improved sense with lessons learnt from past experiences, the periodic conducting of these review sessions constitutes an aspect of evaluation and monitoring.  The report was commissioned by Parliament, which represents a multiparty footprint. Yet it’s also a space where the ANC remains a majority. Hence, in a sense, it can be argued the ANC-led government initiated it as majority leader of Parliament. This should however not be confused as an ANC-commissioned review report. I think it’s perhaps here that some error is committed. You will recall that the ANC in May had a workshop on land. At that workshop the report was presented in an adumbrated sense. The report, however, was not entertained with the view of its engaging or adoption. It served as information sharing.  Unfortunately, as with so many things regarding communications in the ANC, its official press statement after the workshop proved confusing. Not only was it confusing for the general public but we saw that even in the ANC those who attended the workshop had diverse views on the standing of the report and how it was entertained. To this effect, Carl Niehaus, spokesman of the MKVMA, wrote a personal report on the workshop’s outcomes. In such Niehaus was empathic that the Motlanthe Report was nowhere adopted at the land workshop while it was shared for information dissemination purposes.  The response on the part of Mbalula may have been unfortunate, and not well informed. You will recall Niehaus responded to Mbalula, making it clear that Mbalula was ill-informed. It is in the nature of the political den that skirmishes manifest informed by claims of territory. I would reduce the Mbalula statement as unfortunate and perhaps upstaged by Niehaus who appears to have set the tone for President Ramaphosa’s commitment to King Zwelithini. I think maybe some in the ANC may feel they wanted the President to gain the mileage as the one to communicates with the King, particularly in a space and province where the ANC is simply not unified. I simply cannot accept the claim that Parliament may have, in undertaking this exercise, engaged in fruitless expenditure. The reason for my conviction in this regard emanates from the fact that it’s standard for entrenched democracies to engage in these types of exercises. Equally, the 600-page report contains a vast array of adopted legislation and we can find many aspects of the report valuable. I, therefore, would regard it is a necessary investment.  When the President says he can commit that the Ngonyama land ownership is not under question and his government and the governing party has no intention of removing land under the King’s stewardship, can he do it? We can expect that President Ramaphosa will have to visit all provinces with royalty and traditional leadership to reassure them and extend the same and equal treatment from his party and government.  We have heard the Contralesa spokesperson raising this and anticipating a response in this regard for all other traditional communities it represents. We may, therefore, ask, what was the original intent of the bill if not to transfer the control of land from traditional leadership to their subjects? Naturally, we are soon approaching an election period and the ANC’s overtures in reassurances to traditional leadership given its many internal challenges compel it to act against the intentions of the bill.  It looks like elections politics is forcing President Ramaphosa on his knees before Zulu royalty. Clyde Ramalaine Anchor-Analyst on politics for Africa- News 24-7