Is non-racialism, the idea of a society where the debunked race notion does not live or is given life, as led by the ANC dead? I light my proverbial candle, by one of South Africa’s brightest minds, Neville Alexander, when he asserts: “…societies and the global village have changed so radically that to continue to analyse and describe things as though we were still in 1848 or 1948 or event 1994 is to be woefully blind and self -defeating”.  When Alexander remonstrates for a new vocabulary, it is more than prophetic since we appear to be stuck in the quagmire and paradigm of analysing and describing things not cognisant how much things changed. In the same vein, we analyse and describe people with markers for their identity configured with the unscientific race-based seventy years after eugenics was declared defunct. The past weekend the ANC’s Gauteng and Kwa-Zulu Natal provinces staged their conferences where new leaders were elected. Let us then congratulate the ANC for having had these conferences since both were threatened with court action. There is, however, a disturbing and entrenched subculture that begins to define the ANC 25 years into democracy and which it continues to uphold. That trend is its elections are consciously dominated, controlled by what is defined in African and male descriptions. For the purpose of this reflection, we will focus on race and not the male challenge. While the ANC had successful elections the glaring reality it continues to speak of non-racialism in a theoretical sense yet at a practical level it is trapped to elect leadership that is defined by apartheid’s narrow African notion. How is it then possible that the ANC in these two provinces similar to all others except for Western Cape and Northern Cape somehow produce only ‘African’ males to lead? Some will demonstrate its mere demographics and cannot be seen as anything more. In case you do not know in Gauteng, of the 35 members, only one Indian from the Youth made it onto the PEC. In Kwa Zulu Natal not, a single person from any group outside the ‘African’ claim was elected. I am told it’s the first time that this has occurred. The entire top 6 provincial leadership groups in these two provinces elected are ‘Africans’. The disturbing reality is that it appears not to bother the advantaged exclusive ‘African’ identity holders that there are none of the other groups nominated or elected on to the ANC structures. In both elections, a younger generation emerged, yet that younger generation evidences the same absenteeism of what the democratic state continues to classify as Coloured, White and Indian. In cases where accommodation is made as is the case with the Gauteng Provincial government, you will find space is made for a white and Indian but very seldom for a Coloured. We must find it equally odd that KZN where the second largest group of Indians outside of the geographic space of India however defined reside could not even feature a proper nomination. At this rate, it appears the ANC is 100 years away from giving true content to the notion of non-racialism. The late Oom Bill Jardine in a conversation with me in Eldorado Park when he had asked me to bring together the clergy before his death bemoaned the fact that he after a life of struggle was told by comrades he was Coloured. Meaning treated as ‘other’ to ‘African’. Another distinguished academic and freedom fighter who became Nelson Mandela’s director general Prof. Jakes Gerwel before his death equally mourned the death of non-racialism as a practised reality in democratic South Africa. What then do we as a collective make of the fact that in the year of Madiba’s centennial his movement elect leadership that do not underscore the values he stood for. Our dreams of ever being a truly non-racial society are daily diminishing since the leading party in society refuses to lead in giving content to its empty claims of non-racialism. How can this be progress towards the ideal of non-racialism? How is this giving content to the espoused ideals of non-racial and non-sexist ANC and South Africa?  Why then would the ANC be this hellbent to give content to the notion of non-racialism? Firstly, the challenge with non-racial is that it does not dispense with race for the means of identifying a common humanity. We know that the term non-racial is described in many ways among others: ‘Not involving racial factors or racial discrimination’ and ‘not influenced by a person’s race’. This definition of what non-racial means is perhaps the problem since it in root sense recognises and endorses race as the means for an identity for human beings. Meaning, race is not denied, neither challenged and cited for its true debunked status. It is not questioned for its social reality claim. This definition of non-racial allows race to thrive because we are led to fundamentally believe we are different and other. Secondly, in a strange twist of events, there is today an economic value in apartheid’s false African identity. That value lays in its exclusivity, borne out by a degree of exacted pain inflicted during apartheid’s tyranny of an illegitimate state. It in this season translates to and marks an entitled privilege actualized in daily societal exchange and life as we saw from the behaviour of Floyd Shivambu with his recent attack on Ismail Momoniat. Thirdly, the ANC as political leader of the South African society, hitherto had enjoyed the unfettered benefit of sloganeering non-racial(ism) without ever being held accountable to fill the notion with due content. Not enough pressure is exerted on the ANC to give content to its easily espoused notion of non-racialism. A fourth reason as to why the ANC has us continue in a tailspin and this precarious trajectory emanates from the second, those of apartheid’s ‘African’ identity see nothing wrong because the false National Question extends them a unique identity and privilege that entitles them to benefit at all levels. The privilege of an African identity directly borrowed from apartheid’s design does not remotely challenge those who share it to ask for the sustainability and impact of this practice. For as long as it does not bother the ANC defined in majority as ‘African’ that it produces race base elections leaders, for as long as it doesn’t trouble the ANC that it has failed to give content to the espoused notion of non-racial – we will always be on this roller coaster of a peddled lie of equality masked in blackness of description when exclusion thrives unabated and supported by apartheid’s appropriated markers for South African identities. So, ingrained is the false African identity notion that the ANC in Gauteng and elsewhere will rather opt to elect compromised individuals but it won’t elect specific “race” groups who its national question has declared “Blacks in general” because it endeavours in upholding of a questionable “African in particular ” fallacy. Non-racialism in my prism must become the conscious rejection of race to describe and define a common humanity. It is then again important to hear Neville Alexander when he reminds us of apartheid SA and what the hopes were at the dawn of democracy. “At the beginning of the 21st Century, it is also common cause that ‘race’ is not a valid biological entity. It is, however, equally taken for granted that race is a social reality. Segregationist and apartheid South Africa was, as we all know, a byword among the nations as a racist society in the 20th Century. This was and remains the reason for the sense of hope that was engendered worldwide by the demise of the apartheid regime.” It is this hope that Alexander speaks of that compels some of us to challenge those who continue to let apartheid live through race-based categorisation of SA citizens in which the fallacy of an exclusive African identity is prognosticated informed by apartheid pain.