Motapo We’Zigidi It is quite unfortunate that political stories appear to be accepted without being verified. My gut tells me that the ‘pull out’ by many international corporations from South Africa during the economic sanctions against the apartheid government was largely staged. Fewer companies would tell you that they truly divested. BMW, Mercedes Benz and particularly Toyota did not leave the country as such but they developed complex ownership models when it came to the South African market. Toyota granted the Wessels family a status of proxy while the company continued to retain its market share. Wessels in 1961 had obtained an agreement from Toyota in Japan to produce vehicles under license in South Africa. The agreement between the two parties continued throughout the apartheid period. Toyota was artificially separated to Japan’s Toyota Motor Corp (TMC) and Toyota South Africa. When apartheid ended, Toyota was not in the same predicament as Pepsi Cola – its market share in South Africa was at its strongest. Almost the entire taxi industry was operated using Toyota minibus taxis, small cars decorated the roads and vans were busy on farms and construction sites. Toyota re-acquired Toyota South Africa in 2008 from the Wessels family and the shareholders pocketed a cool R2.1 billion for a job well-done. Another story concerns the British giant Barclays Bank, which later returned to own ABSA Bank as we know it today. Barclays disinvested from South Africa in 1986. The company was later renamed First National Bank in 1987 and became a wholly South African owned and controlled entity. ABSA was founded in 1991 through the merger of financial service providers United Bank, the Allied Bank, the Volkskas Bank and certain interests of the Sage Group. This was a mere five years after Barclays had left. Nevertheless, the return of Barclays to South Africa in 2005 surprised many when it acquired a 56.4% stake in ABSA for Barclays Bank Plc increased its shareholding to 62,3% in 2013, which effectively gave it a right to change the bank’s name to Barclays Africa Group Limited. Barclays PLC reduced ownership in Barclays Africa to 23.4% in June 2017. It was announced at the time that the sale proceeds were about R37.7 billion. In fact, the story started much earlier with the announcement in March 2016 of a separation between Barclays Africa and its parent – the British were ditching Africa after 100 years. Guess who was going to benefit? It was Barclays Africa Group Limited, or ABSA, under the none other than Maria Ramos. In February 2017, Barclays PLC agreed to contribute approximately R12 billion primarily to fund the investments required for Barclays Africa to complete the separation from Barclays PLC. Barclays had bought Absa many years ago but the British company already maintained a huge presence throughout the continent. After a few years, they decided to unbundle and gave Absa leeway to run the African operations. In fact, this was exactly 10 years after Barclays’ re-entry in the South African market. This whole ABSA shebang raises eyebrows like the acquisition of SAB-Miller by the Belgian Brewer in 2017. It is proof that the economic sanctions did not de-link South Africa from global capitalism. The company that operated within apartheid South Africa was, in fact, an extension of global capital through proxies. Foreign capital agitated for the end of apartheid to free up their riches and wealth buried under the cloud of Afrikaner racism in South Africa. This takes you to another controversy. Why did the Afrikaner businessmen feel the need to extend an olive branch to the then banned African National Congress? Clearly, there was no altruism in their actions as evidenced in Corporate SA’s resistance to transformation under the new dispensation. They knew exactly what they were doing. They acted on behalf of their handlers abroad to finally free the capital that sanctions had entrapped in the rogue state. Mind you that this money could not be used due to South Africa’s isolation, which was mainly pushed by the Non-Aligned Movement countries. South Africa still maintained fully-fledged economic and political ties with the Western world and of course, their companies and banks. The sanction busting arrangement between these blood relatives is yet to be known. Nevertheless, the likes of Barclays made certain that they “blessed” black leadership in the post-Apartheid era with gifts (money and shares) to show appreciation for the role they played in hiding the scam of economic sanctions. The re-branding of ABSA today marks yet another milestone where apartheid collaborators and agents, here and abroad, finally get back their cleaned money after many years of political shame. As a conduit for global fraud, Barclays hereby hands over back what originally belonged to them. Now you hopefully understand that economic transformation is an enemy of global capital and their friends all over the world. 