Staff Reporter JOHANNESBURG- The Julius Nyerere Political education school of excellence would be critical in training young Africans who will use their skills to tackle socio-economic issues confronting the continent, says ANC Secretary General, Ace Magashule. Magashule said this during the SOD turning event of the political school in Tanzania this week. “The school will train new African men and women who will have the capacity to take the account of the complex world realities. Men and women who will have the capacity to carry the revolutionary task for the transformation of the socio-economic landscapes of our mother continent. As a matter of historical necessity, it will be a centre of excellence for the ideological and theoretical ferment of the new African cadre of our times. An African cadre who will have the potentiality to halt the massive ideological onslaught by the forces of reaction against the world revolutionary movement,” Magashule said. Magashule said that the institution would be crucial in uniting Africa and also assist in dismantling Africa’s “imperialist economic domination.” “Our task is to use this political school to build the capacity of the young generations to come, to eliminate all the vestiges of imperialism and neo-colonialism, monopoly capitalism and racial chauvinism and to end the exploitation of man by man. The lessons and experiences of the revolutionary movement in the past few decades is the graphic demonstration that imperialism would leave no stone unturned to discard the democratic will of the majority and therefore undermining the sovereignty of nation-states,” he said. He also commended the role that the Chinese Communist party played in building the political school. “Our gratitude also extended to the leadership of the Communist Party of the Peoples Republic of China and the people of China for the revered gesture of building a political school, a treasure house, to strengthen the humane acts of the longstanding historical friendship and solidarity between the people of the African continent and the great Chinese nation,” he said. He further said that South Africans would forever be indebted to Tanzania for providing refuge to those facing political persecution during apartheid.     See ANC SG CDE Ace Magashule’s full speech below  MESSAGE DELIVERED BY THE ANC SG CDE ACE MAGASHULE AT THE SOD TURNING CEREMONY OF THE JULIUS NYERERE POLITICAL EDUCATION SCHOOL OF EXCELLENCE IN TANZANIA. “GREATEST FEAT OF HUMAN SOLIDARITY AND INTERNATIONALISM FOR THE BUILDING OF A NEW WORLD SOCIAL ORDER” ANC SG CDE ACE Magashule At the beginning of this week we had the pleasure of being hosted by the leadership of our sister liberation movement, Chama Chama Mapinduzi in the Republic of Tanzania at the historic gathering of the world political parties and sod turning ceremony for the building of a political school of excellence for all former liberation movements of our continent. The Republic of Tanzania is our second home that we will forever be indebted to the generosity of its people for giving most African liberation movements a political refuge during the difficult years of the struggle for their independence from imperialism and colonial domination. Our gratitude also extended to the leadership of the Communist Party of the Peoples Republic of China and the people of China for the revered gesture of building a political school, a treasure house, to strengthen the humane acts of the longstanding historical friendship and solidarity between the people of the African continent and the great Chinese nation. This historic occasion took place against the backdrop of epic events of great political significance to the history of the struggle of humanity that will forever shape the struggle of future generations of mankind, the marking of the centenary celebration of the two of the most outstanding revolutionaries of the progressive world movement, Comrades Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela and our Mother Comrade Albertina Sisulu. These two revolutionary leaders remain the epitome of the struggles for the creation of a better world. Through their unprecedented commitment to serve humanity, we have learned to appreciate that our dreams to foster a better world, can only be achieved through our common efforts of solidarity and internationalism. In memory of these two towering revolutionaries, we borrow the words of wisdom from our dear leader, the President of the Peoples Republic of China Cde Xi Jinping, during the opening ceremony of the conference on the Belt and Road forum for international cooperation, held in China on the 14th May 2017 “Over 2,000 years ago, our ancestors, trekking across vast steppes and deserts, opened the transcontinental passage connecting Asia, Europe and Africa, known today as the Silk Road. Our ancestors, navigating rough seas, created sea routes linking the East and the West, namely, the maritime Silk Road. The ancient silk routes opened windows of friendly engagement amongst nations, adding a splendid chapter to the history of human progress. The thousand -year- old “ gilt bronze silkworm” displayed at China’s Shaanxi History museum and Belitung shipwreck discovered in Indonesia bears witness to this exciting period of history. Spanning thousands of miles and years, the ancient silk routes embody the spirit of peace and cooperation, openness and inclusiveness, mutual learning and mutual benefit. The Silk Road spirit has become a great heritage of human civilization”. The meeting of the world political parties and the sod turning ceremony for the construction of the political school for all the former African national liberation movements was the continuation of the great historical path created by our ancestors to bring the nations of the world together, for prosperity and development. The milestone achievement for the building of this political school of excellence for the people of the African continent is an impressive demonstration of the true facts of solidarity and internationalism between the two people of the African continent and the great Chinese nation and it is an unequalled achievement in the history of the struggles of humanity for freedom and dignity. Throughout the years of our long arduous struggle against the tyranny of imperialism and colonial oppression and exploitation, the Peoples Republic of China has given an insurmountable political, material and diplomatic support for the most of the liberation movements in our continent and other parts of the world that has undoubtedly contributed immensely for the capacity of the liberation movement to liquidate the stranglehold of imperialism and colonial domination. We in Africa know from the deep bottom of our hearts, and appreciate that without the support of the great Chinese nation, it would have been difficult to defeat the oligarchy of the vicious system of imperialism and colonialism. We remain confident that our shared values of human solidarity will become the anchor of all our common efforts to determine the bright future of many of our generations to come. The present historical period of the most complex and hostile world environment dominated by capitalism requires the world progressive movement to strengthen the bonds of human solidarity and internationalism. This is the only guarantee to defend the rights of the overwhelming majority of the suffering people of the world for peace and social progress. In the wake of the objective realities of the present world material conditions of the declining economies, social and moral institutions of the world of capitalism, the school will be a perineal reservoir of wisdom and knowledge, of producing the new African cadre of our modern century. It is a vital institution to drive the present day aspirations of mankind for peace and prosperity. In his polemics, the leader of the Chinese revolution, Cde Mao Tse Tung, says the following about the importance of theory “Where do the correct ideas come from? Do they drop from the skies? No. Are they innate in the mind? No. They come from social practice, the struggle for production, the class struggle and scientific experiment.” He further says that: “Our party organizations must be extended all over the country and must purposefully train tens of thousands of cadres and hundreds of first rate mass leaders. They must be cadres and leaders versed in Marxism-Leninism, politically far-sighted, competent in work, full of the spirit of self-sacrifice, capable of tackling problems on their own, steadfast in the midst of difficulties and loyal and devoted in serving the nation, the class and the Party. It is on these cadres and leaders that the Party relies for its links with the membership and the masses, and it is by relying on their firm leadership of the masses that the Party can succeed in defeating the enemy. Such cadres and leaders must be free from selfishness, from individualistic heroism, ostentation, sloth, passivity, and arrogant sectarianism, and they must be selfless national and class heroes; such are the qualities and the style of work demanded of the members, cadres and leaders of our Party.” Every school or philosophical thought falls into one of the two world theoretical views of idealism and materialism. The theoretical philosophical view of materialism rejects the mystical concept of idealism and insist on the fundamental importance of reality of matter in all its various forms. It believes that ideas themselves are only true if they correspond to the realities of the material world. The truth is that ideological contradictions and contestations have become a battlefield of how ideas can influence the posture of the new world order we want to build. Therefore the struggle for the building of a new world social order is the supreme task of all revolutionaries. The school will train a new African men and women who will have the capacity to take the account of the complex world realities. Men and women who will have the capacity to carry the revolutionary task for the transformation of the socio economic landscapes of our mother continent. As a matter of historical necessity, it will be a center of excellence for ideological and theoretical ferment of the new African cadre of our times. An African cadre who will have the potentiality to halt the massive ideological onslaught by the forces of reaction against the world revolutionary movement. Of importance is that the school will become the monument of the African unity and a source of inspiration for the victory of our struggle against the forces of new-colonialism and forces of reaction in general, a source of inspiration for the improvement of the living and the cultural living standards of our people, eradication of imperialist economic domination of our continent, and acceleration of the agrarian and industrial revolution to meet the material demands of the millions of the people of our continent and the world. Our task is to use this political school to build the capacity of the young generations to come, to eliminate all the vestiges of imperialism and neo colonialism, monopoly capitalism and racial chauvinism and to end the exploitation of man by man. The lessons and experiences of the revolutionary movement in the past few decades is the graphic demonstration that imperialism would leave no stone unturned to discard the democratic will of majority and therefore undermining the sovereignty of nation states. We are confident that in the Communist Party of China we have a loyal ally whose illustrious acts of solidarity remain the springboard of our continuous struggle for nation building and formation. In it we have found a tower of strength in our struggle to build a better world for humanity. Together, following the great footsteps of our great ancestors, we shall make the world a better place to live in. (This an extract of the message of support from the ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule during the occasion of the sod turning ceremony for the building of a political education school of excellence for the Former African Liberation Movements in the Republic of Tanzania on 16 July 2018)   