CAPE TOWN – South Africa is ready to welcome 1 000 business leaders to the country. Preparations for the BRICS Business Council meeting in Durban on July 22 and 23 are at an advanced stage, as are those for the BRICS Business Forum, which will be held in Gauteng on July 25. “The Brics Business Council meeting and the BRICS Business Council Forum present the ideal opportunity to meet the requirements set by President Cyril Ramaphosa to attract significant foreign investment to the country and continent,” said Dr. Iqbal Survé, chairman of the South African chapter of the BRICS Business Council. Dr. Survé has been on the BRICS Business Council since its inception, contributing to the continuity of leadership and understanding of the mechanisms, protocols, logistics, and preparation required for the annual meeting. “The BRICS Business Council in South Africa is fortunate to have business leaders such as Busisiwe Mabuza, Siyabonga Gama, Stavros Nicoloau and Sello Rasethaba at the helm. “They have intensified efforts, together with its working groups, to produce the working group reports and the fifth annual report of the BRICS Business Council,” said Dr. Survé. “The BRICS Business Council themes for this year include the fourth industrial revolution, youth entrepreneurship, and food security. “In addition to the BRICS Business Council annual meeting, the working groups will host events throughout the year of our chairmanship, including a skills development competition at the end of September, with a focus on the skills required in the fourth industrial revolution. “At the end of the day, we measure our success by how many investments we facilitate, how many jobs are being created, and how our countries and our businesses benefited directly. “Looking through the four previous annual reports, it is clear that much has been achieved. “We continue this upward trajectory of building on the dynamic business, trade and investment relationships among the BRICS countries,” said Dr. Survé. Invitations are being sent to leading business people in BRICS countries and from African states Chairpersons in the four other BRICS countries have been formally invited, and they are said to be excited to return to Durban, where the BRICS Business Council was signed into existence at the BRICS Summit in March 2013. The SA Chapter of the BRICS Business Council, which is hosting the five member countries, is working at record speed to arrange the meetings, as South Africa took over the chairmanship only in March this year. “It is traditional that the BRICS Business Council and Brics Summit are held in two different cities since the inception of the BRICS Business Council, and we are upholding this practice. “We thank the KwaZulu-Natal provincial government and its Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs for working with us to showcase our country and our work to the world. “We are proud to bring the BRICS Business Council full cycle,” said Dr. Survé. Hundreds of delegates will be able to enjoy being in Durban, one of the most beautiful cities in South Africa, boosting tourism in the country. 