Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- Embattled North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo on Wednesday announced that he was taking an “early retirement” as the Premier of the province. Mahumapelo said that he took the decision after discussion with the senior structures of the ruling party. Announcing his decision during a media briefing at Luthuli House on Wednesday, Mapumapeolo said that he did not want to interfere with investigations into corruption underway in the province. “There are two reasons why I’m going on early retirement, the first reason is to say that all these investigations that are supposed to take place in the province and that are taking place, if they take place in my presence, there’ll an accusation that I’m using the office to protect myself because those investigations have to continue. I’m also accused along the process, so If I continue in the office and I’m also accused and at the same time, we are dealing with all these 35 forensic investigations, it would be difficult to avoid all the accusation that you are abusing the office to get at some political opponents or to defend yourself,” he said. Mahumapelo also conceded that the North West was still faced with many problems including corruption and poor infrastructure. “We are still faced with problems of infrastructure, roads, bad audit outcome in some of the department and municipalities. We also have challenges of a disjuncture between what the economy requires in the economy,” he said. Mahumapelo said that the ANC in the province would be attending his opponents who called for him to step down amid corruption and maladministration allegations. “We will have to use the might of the revolution to attend to the counter-revolutionaries,” he said. The former Premier has been under pressure to step down from his position especially after hundreds of residents in Mahikeng shut down the town. They accused Mahumapelo of being corrupt. Even though he had indicated that he would step down from the position, he later changed his mind and went on special leave. He appointed finance MEC Wendy Nelson as acting Premier. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161