JOHANNESBURG, May 11- One man died and two other men were critically injured when three balaclava-clad men violently attacked worshippers with a knife at a Verulam mosque in Durban on Thursday afternoon, KwaZulu-Natal police said. Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa, condemned the attack at the mosque in Ottawa, Verulam. “Such criminality cannot be tolerated. A team of investigators has been dispatched to solve the case and bring perpetrators to book,” he said in a statement. The police said that at around 2 pm, three unknown men entered the mosque on the Old Main Road in Ottawa after the midday prayer. “They allegedly attacked three people and stabbed them. They further set certain rooms alight and fled in their getaway vehicle. The victims were taken to hospital for medical attention,” the police statement read. “One of the victims succumbed to his injuries on arrival in hospital. The motive of the attack on the three men is unknown at this stage. Verulam police are investigating a case of murder, two counts of attempted murder and arson. No arrests have been made at this stage.” Meanwhile, the Chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Police, Francois Beukman, also condemned the attack and said that the attack was “shocking and the South African Police Service should prioritise the investigation”. “A mosque is a religious institution, and South Africa’s Constitution guarantees and protects the right to religious practices,” Beukman said in a statement. “This kind of attack on three innocent people is totally unjustified. We want our communities to live in harmony, practising their religions without fear.” Beukman said everything should be done to arrest the perpetrators. Three men entered the Imam Hussain Mosque in Ottawa, Verulam, armed with one or more knives and attacked worshippers, allegedly slitting the throat of one of the victims and stabbing another two. One of the victims is believed to be the Maulana — a  title reserved for Muslim religious scholars. The Muslim Judicial Council of South Africa has joined in to condemn the attack describing it was “vicious and senseless.” “This act, so violent and repulsive of nature, is unprecedented in South African history. We further condemn the senseless killing of innocent individuals at the centre. Life is sacred and must be preserved and protected. Whether it is a mosque, synagogue, church or any other sacred place of worship, space must be protected at all costs. Such a heinous act cannot be allowed to be repeated,” Zaid Dantie said. Dantie further appealed for more tolerance and urged the law enforcement agencies to act swiftly in apprehending the perpetrators of the crime. “We remind South Africans that the makeup of our society is one of religious, cultural and ethnic diversity and tolerance. These qualities are what makes South Africa so unique as a country. We should make every effort possible to preserve our uniqueness and diversity from all forms of threats. We call upon the South African Police Services (SAPS) to do the necessary criminal investigations so that the perpetrators can be brought to book and face the full might of the law,” Dantie said. Earlier, Durban Metro Police spokesperson Paboo Sewpersad confirmed the attack, adding that officers were “searching for the suspects”. Local security company — which was among the first on the scene — Reaction Unit’s Prem Balram said that upon arrival they found that “two victims with throats slit and were bleeding profusely”. Reaction Unit also runs a private paramedic service. “Paramedics were called to the scene to attend to the critically injured men. Our officers then noticed smoke emanating from the mosque and attempted to douse the flames. A third victim was found inside the building bleeding from a wound to his throat,” said Balram. Balram said the suspects who were wearing balaclavas fled in a “white Hyundai light motor vehicle with no registration plates”. North coast-based IPSS Medical Rescue’s Paul Herbst, who also attended to the scene, confirmed the multiple injuries and that the “mosque has been set alight”. – African News Agency (ANA)