Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- Former Higher education and Training deputy minister Mduduzi Manana claims that allegations of assault levelled against by his former domestic worker are “malicious and unfortunate”. A common assault charge that had been laid against Manana on Sunday at Dougladale police station was later withdrawn by his former domestic worker Christine Wiro from Zimbabwe. Manana said that he would be taking legal actions against the Wiro family for demanding R100 000 from him. He made the remarks after it was reported that he offered the domestic worker R100 000 to drop the common assault charge against him. Manana said that he reprimanded Wiro for giving access to guests at his home without his permission. “The new allegations levelled against me are both unfortunate and malicious. Catherine Wiro was employed as my domestic worker for a period of two weeks. On her first week at work, I realized that she often gives access to everyone who comes to my home and I warned her about a possible security risk that such conduct poses to me and especially to her as she could easily be raped,” Manana said in a statement. She alleged that Manana tried to push her down the stairs of his house. She also described the ANC MP as a “verbally abusive” person. He said that on Sunday, he scolded Wiro for allowing two people to enter his home without his approval. “On 06 May 2018, I woke up in the morning and told her that I was expecting a guest and she should prepare breakfast for two persons. I discovered that my guest had already made herself comfortable at my home. I then confronted Wiro that she should have verified with me that there was Ms Sithembile Ntuli at the gate before opening for her because I had not told her the name of the guest that I was having breakfast with. Like any other employer, it is within my right to reprimand Ms Wiro if she flouts the rules of the house, and she responded by laughing, much to my guest’s shock,” Manana said. In 2017, Manana was convicted of assaulting two women at a night-club in Fourways. He pleaded guilty to assault charges and was sentenced to a fine of R100 000 or 12 months of imprisonment. Manana resigned as Deputy education and Training minister and remained as ANC MP. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161