Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- South Africa is a country that is developing to new heights on a constant basis. More and more people have access to a wide range of opportunities that were previously denied to them. However, with this new-found sense of empowerment amongst the majority of our people in South Africa comes with a series of sacrifices. This is evidenced on how many people leave their loved ones at home in the rural areas and townships in order to start new careers, ventures, and businesses in the hustle and bustle of our major cities that provide better economic opportunities. The buzz and the fast-paced life that has come to characterize the nature of the average man and woman in South Africa can often leave an emotional gap that is exacerbated by the loss of a loved one. The greatest pain associated with losing someone you love is not finding the time to let them know how much you appreciated them while they were still alive. Nksoinathi Ngcobo, 41, an admitted attorney from KZN revealed that the saddest moment in his life was losing his mother after she suffered a short illness that put her in the hospital a few years ago. He left home at the age of 18 to pursue his studies and work on building his career in various industries before he ended up as an attorney practicing in South Africa. Apart from losing his mother, he says the biggest regret is that he has was not being able to thank her for raising him to be a hard-working and dedicated man. “I was so fixated in trying to pull myself pout of the poverty that I grew up in, I needed up forgetting about the most important person in my life. She dies without me telling her exactly how I felt about her. If I could have any moment I life back, it would be to tell my mother how much I love her and to say thank you for everything that she has done for. If it were not for her, I would not be the man the I am today,” he says. Ngcobo is just one of many examples of just how the world can be a source of tragedy where someone we love can be gone in the blink of an eye. Very often, when someone we love leaves us one of our biggest regrets is that we did not get a chance to let them know how much we loved them. Even to those who are still present, we never learn and we often repeat the same mistake of not finding the time to say “I love you” or “thank you” to the people who matter most. Many people go through their whole lives interacting with their loved ones, believing that they will always be there when the truth is that they will not always be there because nothing lasts forever. This year, Doves Group wants to encourage everyday South Africans, to tell their loved ones just how much they mean to them. This year, SA’s leading franchise funeral parlours is proud to launch Isikhumbuzo. Isikhumbuzo is a Zulu word that means a reminder. Isikhumbuzo can be submitted in two forms as a voice note and as an image that goes with a message on www.isikhumbuzo.com     The campaign aims to create good memories by helping people remember to tell their loved ones how they feel and how much they mean to them before it’s too late. The thinking behind Isikhumbuzo is rooted in how we often take the people around us for granted. Speaking on the campaign, Minki Rasenyalo, the CEO of Doves commented: “Life can be one big hustle and bustle that pushes the people we love away from us. The stresses that comes with it make it easy to forget about how much we care for other people and letting some know you care about them is starting to turning someone’s life around. Therefore, with Isikhumbuzo we call on you to join this campaign where it only takes a few seconds out of your day to make sure someone feels valued. Something as simple as a “hey, how are you doing” check-up text can make someone feel cared about and turn their whole day around,” she said. Doves Group is one of the largest funeral directing companies in Southern Africa and a major role player in the progressive development of the funeral industry. The company was the founding member of the National Funeral Directors Association (NFDA) and is currently the member of South African Funeral Practitioner’s Association (SAFPA) and the Funeral Federation of South Africa (FFSA). Doves Group has influenced the present-day structure of the funeral industry. Doves Group runs a national network in excess of 160 branches in all the nine provinces, providing insurance, funeral services, and related products. In addition, the company is also an authorized financial services provider with its funeral insurance underwritten by Union Life. At the heart of the Isikhumbuzo campaign, the Doves team had live reads on some radio shows around the country such as Gagasi FM in Durban, Jozi FM, Thetha FM and Mafikeng Community Radio. These platforms will also play an important role in helping the company get its message across to the people.  @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161