Zodidi Mhlana A common assault charged that had been laid against former Higher education and Training deputy minister has been withdrawn. This comes after Mduduzi Manana’s former domestic worker Christine Wiro from Zimbabwe laid a common assault charge against him on Sunday alleging that he tried pushing her down the stairs of his house. It has been reported that Wiro described Manana as a “verbally abusive” person. Gauteng police spokesperson Brigadier Mathapelo Peters on Monday confirmed a common assault charge was opened against Manana, but it was later withdrawn. “I can confirm that a case of common assault was opened on Sunday evening at Douglasdale police station and the victim came back them to withdraw the case a few hours later. There was no further investigation on the side of the police. At the same time, we are not sure of the circumstances as to why she chose to withdraw the case, but it is the prerogative of the victim to withdraw or to continue.The case can be re-opened again at the time convenient to her, although it would have compromised the investigation because with any investigation, if there’s a certain time lapse, then part of the evidence gets compromised,” Peters said. Lisa Vetten, gender expert at the Wits Institute for Social and Economic Research (Wiser) said that there could be various reasons as to why the charge was withdrawn. “I think we need to ask what pressure was put on her to withdraw. She could have been thinking about what if I get deported. He may have said that I will give you money, it can be very complicated, but usually some sort of pressure has been placed on someone to withdraw under those circumstances,” she said. Vetten said the latest issue would pressurise the ruling party to deal with Manana. “If you look at the video of the way he assaulted those women last year, that’s a man for whom violence is new and unusual. Clearly, he’s got an anger problem. The ANC must think long and hard about him,” Vetten added. Cosatu called on the ANC to deal with Manana “decisively” adding that the abuse of domestic workers was widespread in the country. “It is unacceptable that someone who represents the ANC in Parliament is accused of abusing a domestic worker,” Cosatu’s Sizwe Pamla said. The Democratic Alliance said that it would be reporting Manana to Parliament’s Ethics Committee so that he could be removed as the MP. In 2017, Manana was convicted of assaulting two women at a night club in Fourways. Hen pleaded guilty to assault charges and was sentenced to a fine of R100 000 or 12 months of imprisonment. Manana resigned as Deputy education and Training minister and remained as ANC MP.