Sello Theletsane JOHANNESBURG- Businessman Kenny Kunene’s Kusema Media Group has announced the appointment of veteran editor Steve Motale as its editor-in-chief as part of its ongoing growth strategy and revitalisation of its online platforms. Motale, who takes over editorship of Kusema Media Group’s online publications: WeeklyXpose.co.za and Africanews24-7.co.za is a former editor of The Citizen and The SundayIndependent. Prior to him joining The Citizen, Motale was the executive editor of the Pretoria News, which is part of the Independent Media stable. He was recruited to The SundayIndependent last year after spending three years at the helm of The Citizen. Born and bred in Kroonstad in the Free State, Motale a qualified high school teacher who spent more than a decade in the classroom, cut his teeth in journalism in the early nineties as a reporter at the Klerksdorp Record in the North West, which is part of Caxton stable where he later served as news editor.  Over and above qualifications in teaching and business communication, Motale is a graduate of Wits University Business School’s Management Advancement Programme. Kunene said he had the utmost respect for Motale whom he described as “the most fearless editor the country has ever produced”. “I’m elated to have on board one of the most distinguished editors and  I have every confidence in his ability to grow our readership base.” Added Kunene: “Steve does not join Kusema Media Group as an ordinary employee. As a long-time friend and brother, Steve will also be an equal shareholder in the group as well as in my other business ventures.”  “His appointment is in line with my vision of pursuing black excellence in the media space, a vast majority of whom is still white-owned. I wish Steve every success with this exciting new challenge.” Motale said he enjoys new challenges and being tasked with growing Kusema Media Group’s online publications was an “exciting challenge”. “Widespread interference with editorial independence by media owners, a common practice in the country’s mainstream media is what motivated me to be part of a media group where I do not only have total control but my independence is guaranteed.” “I also feel honoured to be part of a media group that is 100% black-owned and is unapologetically pro-transformation.” Concluded Motale: “What I find exciting and more challenging is the fact that Kusema Media Group’s publications are in their infancy stage, which gives me an opportunity to champion their growth and also realise my vision of a leading a truly independent media platform which caters for all voices, including unpopular ones.” Motale can be reached on steven.motale@18.202.123.161
@SteveMotale