Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- Two security guards were wounded during yet another cash-in-transit heist that took place outside Polokwane in Limpopo on Monday morning. It is believed that armed criminals stole an undisclosed amount of money after blowing up the cash-in-transit van. Limpopo Lieutenant Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said: “I can confirm that in the early hours of today, the cash in transit vehicle was attacked by a number of armed criminals just outside Polokwane where an undisclosed amount of cash was taken. Two security officers were injured during the process. They are being treated in hospital. There were four security guards. We are still at the beginning of our investigation. According to our assessment, these kinds of robberies have been normalized, but we are hard at work to deal with them head-on. We’ve got strategies in place to deal with them. Crime is a crime and there’s no way that we are not concern about this,” Ngoepe said. There was another cash-in-transit heist in Centurion that occurred this morning. No one has been arrested at this stage. Concerns have been expressed about the surge in the number of robberies in the country, with nearly 150 heists having occurred since the start of 2018. Last week, a young woman was hit by a stray bullet during another cash -in transit heist at Jabulani Mall. Police are still on the lookout for eight men who were involved in another robbery in Southdale in Gauteng last week. Crime activist Yusuf Abramjee recently said that organized criminals with military training were involved in these attacks. The South African Banking Risk Information Centre (SABRIC) CEO Kalyani Pillay said that they were working with the police to reduce the attacks. “SABRIC and the Cash in Transit Industry are working closely with the SAPS and DPCI in efforts to address this scourge. All we can say at this stage is that these issues are receiving priority attention both within law enforcement and the CIT companies,” Pillay said. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161