Istanbul, May 22, 2018 – President Tayyip Erdogan has hinted that Turkey might consider imposing a ban on imports of some Israeli goods over the killing of Palestinian protesters by Israeli forces on the Gaza border, media reported on Tuesday. Erdogan, who is campaigning for re-election in June, hosted Muslim leaders, who condemned the events in Gaza and the opening of the U.S. embassy in Jerusalem. Speaking to reporters on a return flight from Bosnia, Erdogan said the 57-member Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) had recommended that a boycott is imposed on Israeli goods. “I hope that OIC member countries implement a boycott decision in line with the recommendation. Consequently, no product should be brought from there anymore. Naturally, we will assess this situation in the same way,” Hurriyet newspaper reported Erdogan as saying. A declaration by the OIC on Friday repeated a call for countries to ban “products of the illegal Israeli settlements from entering their markets”, referring to goods produced in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Golan Heights. It did not seek a ban on all Israeli goods. The declaration also called for “economic restrictions (on) countries, officials, parliaments, companies or individuals” who followed the U.S. and moved their embassies to Jerusalem. U.S. President Donald Trump’s move to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and shift the U.S. embassy there reversed decades of U.S. policy, upsetting the Arab world and Western allies. Erdogan said that Trump’s move had emboldened Israel to put down the protests at the border with Gaza with excessive force, likening the actions of Israeli forces to Nazi Germany’s treatment of Jews in World War Two, when millions were killed in concentration camps. The violence in Gaza, where more than 60 Palestinians were killed on May 14 led to Turkey and Israel expelling each other’s senior diplomats. Erdogan also traded barbs on Twitter with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Israel was the 10th-largest market for Turkish exports in 2017, buying some 3.4 billion dollars of goods, according to IMF statistics. Data from Turkey’s statistics institute showed that trade volume between the two was at 4.9 billion dollars in 2017. Turkey, which has a trade surplus with Israel, imports plastics and mineral oils among other goods from there.
Erdogan said Turkey would reconsider its ties with Israel. “We will put our relations on the table, in particular, our economic and trade relations.
“We have an election ahead of us. After the election we will take our steps in this direction,” Erdogan was quoted as saying. -(Reuters/NAN)