This week, the ANC launched its Thuma Mina campaign which aims to assist the party with fulfilling its political mandate and deliver services to the community. Any initiative that aims to deliver services to the people should be commended and supported but doing so without applying a certain degree of scrutiny to test its legitimacy would be an insult to the intelligence of the people who desperately need a government that will ensure effective service delivery. For those of you who do not understand, thuma mina is a Zulu phrase meaning send me. Ending his budget speech with what some might view as a sense of style and panache, President Cyril Ramaphosa, quoting legendary Jazz Musician Hugh Masekela said: I wanna be there when the people start to turn it around When they triumph over poverty I wanna be there when the people win the battle against AIDS I wanna lend a hand I wanna be there for the alcoholic I wanna be there for the drug addict I wanna be there for the victims of violence and abuse I wanna lend a hand Send me While all that may seem noble in its intentions, in the South African context and after everything we have been through at the hands of the arrogant black ruling class who are meant to be serving the people, the Thuma Mina campaign may serve as another opportunity for individuals to buck dance for their supper under the new administration. Here are a few things that we need to take into consideration. Before the current ANC leadership was voted into power, the battle lines were drawn in a fight between the people (Radical Economic Transformation) vs private capital. All attempts to explain that it was time for the ordinary man on the street to wrestle economic power from the clutches of White Monopoly Capital were dismissed and scoffed at by beneficiaries of apartheid and politically connected blacks who had accumulated wealth through Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) deals and token appointments post 1994. Those who advocated for black control over our white-dominated economy were given all sorts of vicious labels that cannot be dignified with a mention in this article. As was expected, through a comprehensive and well-orchestrated multibillion-rand campaign, capital won and on the face of it, RET looked set to die a slow and painful death. Ironically, the same people who were sent to negotiate on our behalf at Codesa in the early 90’s but instead came back as billionaire tycoons while the rest of the people suffered are now in pole position to dictate on who should be sent to speak and act on behalf of the people. In its basic composition, the Thuma Mina campaign may just begin to unravel as a dubious proposition and here is why. Throughout world history, it is very difficult to find a period where the poor or working class were liberated by the rich or ruling class. In fact, it is the other way around. The poor have always liberated the poor after banding together to bring down empires or oppressive regimes and monarchies. At its foundation, the ANC is a party that was founded to address and cater for the needs of a black elite that wanted a place at the table under South Africa’s oppressive colonial administration. The likes of John Dube, Sol Plaatje, Pixley Ka Seme, Saul Msane and Josiah Gumede were educated by European missionaries whose sole aim at the time was to strip the African of knowledge of self and pacify him the process. Throughout its history, the ANC (bar the ANCYL) continued to manage this identity very carefully until the end of Thabo Mbeki’s tenure as president. The subsequent elevation and election of former president Jacob Zuma was viewed as an anomaly by many ANC elitists, particularly the older generation which is evidenced on how vocal they were towards the end of his presidential run in 2017. Thuma Mina is a campaign that one may have to take with a pinch of salt primarily because the people behind it are individuals who first decided to enrich themselves before genuinely addressing the needs of the people. The same individuals spoke of a “new deal” and a “new dawn” yet proceeded to shove old men who had been ministers since 1994 down our throats instead of paving the way for younger, black, educated and energetic leaders who complement the age demographics of our country. How can you ask the black South African population to have trust in Thuma Mina when the ruling party has not been able to deal with its highly ineffective cadre deployment process? Cadre deployment is a tool used in South Africa to leverage political patronage. The words thuma, send and deploy mean more or less the same thing and the latter has been used robustly since 1994 to reward those who were loyal to whichever national, provincial and local administration that assumed political power after winning an ANC elective conference. To announce what appears to be such a redundant campaign after decades of ineffective deployments that have seen billions looted by each and every administration that has come into power since the dawn of democracy in 1994 is an insult to the intelligence of the voting public because those who will be sent under Thuma Mina will be sent to occupy positions of influence or receive funding for their projects as a token of appreciation for supporting the new president of South Africa. The only way that this campaign can ever be taken seriously is if Ramaphosa puts his money where his mouth is on his “new dawn” initiative by replacing all the tired old faces with younger and more energetic black individuals who are ambitious and eager to assume the mantle of leadership for the next generation. The old guard has let our people down by failing to dismantle white supremacy in our economy. Instead, they opted to cement their positions within the structures of a system that is designed to keep black people at the bottom of the economic ladder while lottery picking a few blacks at a time to serve as tokens on various boards of directors through lucrative BEE transactions in our economic landscape. The onus is on Ramaphosa to ensure that he elevates young black people who are going to put an end to white supremacy and racial discrimination against black professionals in our economic and corporate landscape in South Africa. That is the first step of ensuring that project South Africa becomes a success story. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161