PORT ELIZABETH, May 1 (ANA) – African National Congress President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday called for equal pay for men and women in South Africa. Ramaphosa was speaking at a Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) May Day Rally held at a packed Isaac Wolfson Stadium in Port Elizabeth where he was warmly received by the crowds. President Cyril Ramaphosa defended the introduction of a minimum wage of R20 an hour in South Africa, but at the same time conceded it was not a “living wage”. Addressing a Workers’ Day rally in Port Elizabeth, Ramaphosa said government’s social partners, including the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu), agreed to begin at R20 per hour to ensure there is no negative effect on the economy and job creation. “We have put in place mechanisms to ensure that as we increase the minimum wage over time, we do so in a way that meaningfully reduces poverty and inequality and contributes to the inclusive growth of our economy,” he said. “All social partners recognise that at its introduction, the national minimum wage will be less than what we consider to be a living wage. The social partners also agree that it must be our firm determination to move as quickly as possible to a living wage.” Cosatu’s rival the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) have threatened to make South Africa ungovernable if the minimum wage is introduced, likening the move to implementing “slave wages”. Saftu is also against new proposed labour laws limiting workers’ right to strike. Ramaphosa said government was not aiming to take strip workers of this right. “We know that strikes are intended to inflict harm on the intransigent employer, but we also know that strikes inflict harm on the broader economy and indeed on workers themselves, who lose out on wages. Workers therefore only embark on strike action as a last resort, by way of a democratic decision, understanding that it demands a sacrifice from them and their families,” he said. “As a revolutionary Alliance, as a government, we will do nothing that will take that right away from workers.” The ANC in the Eastern Cape said on Tuesday that workers day was a testimony to the hard battles faced by workers in the country and around the world. National May Day celebrations are currently underway at the Isaac Wolfson Stadium in Port Elizabeth, with President Cyril Ramaphosa expected to arrive shortly and address the rally. Cosatu had earlier held a march from Njoli Square to the Kwazakhele Police Station. The march was attended by thousands of supporters who lined the streets in the union and the ANC colours. “This public holiday is a testimony to the hard battles that workers in this country and in other parts of the globe have waged for workers` rights and social justice over many decades. It is also a reminder of the many challenges that still confront working people and the poor in South Africa – and which remain obstacles to sustainable human development among all developing nations,” the ANC in the province said in a statement. “On this International workers day ANC recommits itself to solidarity with our fellow workers under attack in Palestine, Swaziland, Western Sahara, Colombia, Burma and other parts of the world,” the statement said. “Our generation is privileged to have this fine asset – COSATU – and must do more to preserve and nurture it and take it to new heights. We must bequeath an even stronger COSATU to our children and future generations.” The official programme was meant to get underway at 11am. By 11:30 the stadium was half full and with supporters still trickling in.