CAPE TOWN, May 19 – New Zealand born-flyhalf Hayden Parker snapped over an opportunist last-minute drop goal to set up a dramatic 26-23 win for the Sunwolves over the touring Stormers in Saturday’s Super Rugby match in Hong Kong. Parker’s matchwinning drop rounded off his personal haul of 21 points in the match which looked like ending in a draw in the dying minutes until he intervened with telling effect to give the hosts a deserving win. The result means the Stormers have yet to win an away match this season. The intense Hong Kong heat didn’t seem to bother the teams as both were up for the running rugby game from the kick-off. However, frequent handling errors put paid to some promising attacking moves. The Sunwolves had their fair share of possession in the opening stages but it was the Stormers who scored first after excellent finishing by their leftwing Dillyn Leyds whose athleticism allowed him to touchdown after a tackler had pushed him beyond the touchline. The TMO Minoru Fuji of Japan confirmed that Leyds was not in touch but rather airborne when he dotted the ball down. The conversion from the touchline went wide (5-0). As both sets of defences seemed to be enjoying the upper hand the teams opted for tactical kicks to set up attacks. The ploy worked well after two of the remaining three first-half tries came via that route. First Stormers outside centre JJ Engelbrecht brought off an interception while the Sunwolves backline was making headway into opposition territory. Engelbrecht showed both speed and strength as he held out against tackling attempts to score midway through the half.  Jean-Luc du Plessis, the Stormers flyhalf, was on target with the conversion (12-0). The Sunwolves responded with a try of their own three minutes later as backs and forwards dovetailed splendidly in a surge deep into the Stormers half. A kick ahead had the opposition defence at sixes and sevens and flyhalf Hayden Parker was sent clear for his side’s opening try. He scored the conversion (12-7). Some 10 minutes on, Stormers scrumhalf Dewaldt Duvenage produced a grubber which opened the opposition defence and Leyds and fullback SP Marais raced in to pounce. Leyds won the race and Du Plessis added the extras (17-7). Just ahead of the break Parker was on target with a penalty (17-10). The Sunwolves wasted no time imposing themselves on the game when second-half play restarted and this was very much the pattern for most of the half. In the end, the Sunwolves outscored the Stormers 16-6 in this half and as play wore on the visitors looked less likely to avoid disaster as the pressure mounted. Formers Bulls loosie Grant Hattingh sparked the Sunwolves’ second-half fightback with a converted try in the 56th minute and the scoreboard advance made for a 17-all scoreline. Marais who had replaced Du Plessis as the Stormers’ place-kicker banged over two penalties and Parker did the same for the Sunwolves and the score stood at 23-all with minute’s playing time left. The Sunwolves produced a strong surge into Stormers territory and after a penetrative multi-phase attack in the 22m area, the ball was spun back to Parker who made no mistake with the drop attempt (26-23). Scorers: Sunwolves 26 (10): Tries: Hayden Parker, Grant Hattingh. Conversions: Parker (2). Penalties: Parker (3). Drop goal: Parker
Stormers 23 (17): Tries: Dillyn Leyds (2), JJ Engelbrecht. Conversion: Jean-Luc du Plessis. Penalties: SP Marais (2) – African News Agency (ANA)