Zodidi Mhlana JOHANNESBURG- Minister in the Presidency for women, Bathabile Dlamini said her ministry was opposed to any form of violence against women after a domestic worker laid an assault charge against ANC MP Mduduzi Manana. The remarks come after Manana’s former domestic worker Christine Wiro from Zimbabwe laid a common assault charge against the former Higher Education and Training deputy minister on Sunday for allegedly trying to push her down the stairs of his house. Wiro dropped the charge of assault against Manana on the same day. The MP has been accused of offering Wiro R100 000 to drop the charge. Manana claims that he would be instituting legal actions against the Wiro family for demanding R100 000 from him. A recording of Manana in conversation with Wiro and others outside the police station has since emerged. Manana can be heard saying: “I’m saying just for any consolation, just to take care of mama for what she feels is humiliation.” Dlamini said the allegations were concerning. “The public altercation between Wiro and Manana presents a serious cause for concern for a number of reasons. The allegations of violence have resurfaced against Mr Manana, who as a leader, has been entrusted by the public to represent them at the parliament of the republic. Such leader must, therefore, live his life as a living reflection of the aspirations of our Constitution. At the same time, we are concerned by allegations of extortion levelled against the Wiro family by Mr Manana,” she said. Explaining what happened between himself and Wiro on Sunday in Fourways home, Manana said he only reprimanded her for giving access to guests without his permission. “The new allegations levelled against me are both unfortunate and malicious. Catherine Wiro was employed as my domestic worker for a period of two weeks. On her first week at work, I realized that she often gives access to everyone who comes to my home and I warned her about a possible security risk that such conduct poses to me and especially to her as she could easily be raped,” he said. In 2017, Manana was convicted of assaulting two women at a night-club in Fourways. He pleaded guilty to assault charges and was sentenced to a fine of R100 000 or 12 months of imprisonment. Manana resigned as Deputy education and Training minister and remained as ANC MP. @Mhlana
zodidi.mhlana@18.202.123.161