Ayanda Mdluli JOHANNESBURG- Fresh allegations have surfaced alleging that a multi-billion-rand Independent Power Producer’s (IPPs) tender that was conducted by the Department of Energy two years ago was mired in corruption and preferential treatment to favor foreign owned and politically connected service providers operating in this “brutal” and highly contested sector. Although the Department of Energy has vehemently denied any claims of corruption, favoritism or mismanagement, documents leaked to Africa News 24-7 allege that the Department of Energy’s IPP office did not follow proper procedures when dealing with certain aspects of Bid Window 3.5 which was signed off recently by the Minister of Energy, Jeff Radebe. According to documents in Africa News 24-7’s possession, Karoshoek PT/Ilanga CSP 2 Consortium, was said to have been unfairly disqualified from the bidding process in favour of other entities that are alleged to have ties with politically connected local individuals and foreign-owned firms that have benefited from the recent highly lucrative signing of the 27 IPPs by Radebe. Bid Window 3.5 sought request for proposals back in August 2011 for New Generation Capacity under the IPP Procurement Programme. Letters seen by Africa News 24-7 indicate that Ilanga CSP2 was disqualified from the process without due processes being followed. Although the value of individual contracts is subject to confidentiality undertakings within the Department of Energy, the total value of the Bid Window 3.5 and Bid Window 4 projects is R58 billion. Corruption in technicalities In an affidavit from Norton Rose Fulbright, which was submitted to the Department of Energy on behalf of Ilanga CPS2 in October 2017, the Department of Energy said Ilanga CPS2 had failed to “satisfy the technical qualification criterion of a time and cost estimate letter from Eskom”, which was the Grid provider. However, Ilanga CSP2 said the disqualification was unfair, irrational, unreasonable and invalid because Ilanga CSP2 had obtained a cost estimate letter for Karoshoek PT which is part of its consortium in October 2012. The company claims that in January 2014, it was contacted by Eskom and requested that it reissue the October 2012 letter for submission with its bid for round 3.5 of the tender. The company said it even paid an application amount of R88 920 for the re-issue of the cost estimate letter where it was advised that the process would take between 90 and 120 days. The company was then advised by Eskom’s Grid Access Unit that it should submit the October 2012 letter with its bid, together with the application for a new cost estimate letter and proof of payment. “It follows that as far as Eskom was concerned, the draft letter would serve the same function as a final letter, pending its replacement with a re-issued letter. It is furthermore implicit in Eskom’s advice that it was content that both Ilanga CPS2 and the Department of Energy treat the draft letter as if it were a final letter until its replacement,” read the legal documents. Ilanga CPS2 claims that it followed Eskom’s advise in submitting its bid response. Although the department, in disqualifying Ilanga CPS2 claims that the company did not submit a signed cost estimate letter, Africa News 24-7 is in possession of the cost estimate letter which was signed by Jacob Madumo, who is employed as Eskom’s Grid Access Unit Middle Manager. In a confidential letter seen by Africa News 24-7 written by Ilanga CSP2 to the Department of Energy, the company said it had provided and showed the invoice duly stamped “paid”, proof of payment from its bank, Investec Bank Limited and the e-mail confirmation received from a Lebohang Motai from Eskom. “We advised that in July 2014, the bidder received a cost estimate letter dated 17 July 2014 which evidences a valid application had been made and paid for in March 2014,” read the letter. A senior official in the department who is close to the developments of Bid Window 3.5 and spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of victimization said the disqualification of some black-owned industry players from the tender was on the backdrop of corrupt, irregular and underhanded tactics that aimed to push preferred companies that had political connections within the IPPs office. The head of the IPP’s office, Karen Breytenbach is alleged to have used her position in the IPP office to fund her lifestyle after receiving kickbacks to ensure that certain IPPs are in pole position to receive some of the lucrative contracts that were recently signed into effect by Radebe. According to the source, Breytenbach interfered with the application process and stripped many companies of the right to participate in the IPP Programme. “The director general of the Department of Energy must apply the relevant processes and initiate an investigation into the awarding of the 27 IPPs. There are issues relating to interferences in the procurement processes that need to be looked at and she must be immediately put on suspension pending a full investigation of her alleged corrupt role and conduct in the IPP Office and Department,” he said. In letters seen by Africa News 24-7, Ilanga CSP2 claimed that the announcement of the shortlisted bidders was also made in an irregular manner after the department announced on its Facebook page instead of broader and more effective communication channels. This infective method of communication was labeled as suspicious and could have served as a potential cover-up to shield companies that were alleged to have received preferential treatment. Another senior official in the department said: “What you need to ask yourself is that is it normal for the Department to make an announcement of preferred bidders on Facebook instead of following the usual procedures? Also, there were letters sent to the minister about this issue, but he pushed away to sign the 27 IPPs. Why did he not intervene and put the matter to rest before signing the IPPs, especially when there are allegations of corruption and irregularities that have been cited in the whole process? Energy responds In response to this, Thandiwe Maimane the chief director of communications at the Department of Energy said Bidders are appointed in terms of a formal letter of appointment. In addition, whenever possible, the Ministerial public announcement as per that of 4 April 2018 is also done in the presence of bidders and the media, while all accessible media platforms are used to broaden information sharing with all sectors of society. “An unsuccessful bidder of Bid Window 3.5 was given an opportunity to make representations to the respective Ministers in respect of an allegation of irregularity. The unsuccessful bidder was advised of the correct facts in the matter. The Minister of Energy respects the right of any person or entity to legal recourse. Also, if the unsuccessful bidder, in this case, wishes to proceed with litigation, the matter will be defended,” she said. When asked if the Department was aware of allegations of corruption at the IPPs office, Maimane said she was aware of the allegations and that there had also been threats of intimidation against staff at the IPPs office. She also claims that there were unsuccessful bidders who tried to access bid evaluation results unlawfully. When pressed for comment, Breytenbach responded, saying that the head of the IPP Office did not receive irregular payments or any other payments or benefits from any bidder of the IPP Programme. Explaining the process, Breytenbach said: “All evaluations are undertaken by independent and reputable evaluators who have been appointed through competitive procurement processes conducted by the Development Bank of Southern Africa on behalf of the IPP office. Evaluation reports of individual evaluators are reviewed by independent and reputable specialist reviewers to ensure consistency in evaluation. The evaluation of bid submissions of all IPP projects are conducted in a secure environment as per the request for pre-qualification and proposals where access to the evaluation center is strictly controlled and limited to independent evaluators and those involved in supporting the evaluation,” she explained. In addition, she said the head of the IPP office will cooperate fully in any investigations that government may choose to instigate. She highlighted that none of the staff of the IPP Office, including the Head of the IPP office, participate in any of the evaluations leading up to the appointment of Preferred Bidders. “In fact, the head of the IPP office is least involved in any of these processes. It is not possible for any of the IPP office staff, including the Head of the IPP office, to influence the outcome of the selection of preferred bidders unless there is collusion between all evaluators. This would create substantial reputational risk to the firms involved, of which some are international firms,” she said. @AyandaMdluli28
ayanda.mdluli@18.202.123.161