CAPE TOWN, October 22 – A Cape Town-based movie titled Nommer 37, a crime thriller set on the Cape Flats, is set to have its premiere in cinemas in Los Angeles and New York next month. Joshua Bradley, chief executive and executive producer at Gambit Films, described the screening of the film in the United States of America as a commendable achievement that all South Africans should be proud of. The movie tells the captivating story of a paraplegic who witnesses a crime but decides to blackmail the perpetrator instead of reporting him to the police. It was funded by the Department of Trade and Industry (the dti) through its South African Emerging Black Filmmakers Incentive scheme. “Having one’s movie shown in Hollywood is the biggest dream of every film producer in the world. We are extremely honoured to have been afforded this privilege. It is an achievement that we should be proud of as a country and celebrate,” said Bradley. “This is not only a commendable feat and a major milestone for the South African film industry, but it is also a demonstration of the level that government support can enable filmmakers to reach as the dti funded the film, contributing about 40% of movie’s budget. We are optimistic that the film will open doors for other locally-produced films that are telling the South African stories in our own languages as Nommer 37 does,’’ he added. Bradley also said he was happy that the screening of his film in the US would coincide with the internationally renowned American Film Market (AFM) taking place in Los Angeles from October 31 to November 7. Bradley is one of the South African filmmakers from three of the country’s provinces who will be attending the market as part of an Outward Film Investment Mission funded and led by the dti. The objective of the mission is to attract foreign direct investment into the South African film industry. The AFM is one of the biggest film markets in the world that is targeted by sales agents and distributors from all over the world to acquire films. It is recognised as one of the most important international film industry gatherings. “The trip could not have come at a more opportune time. In addition to attending the premiere of our movie in Los Angeles, we will also be participating in the AFM, interacting with industry stakeholders from across the globe. We have four projects comprising of two feature films and two television series that we will be marketing at the event with the aim of securing co-producers, investors and distributors for them. We already have meetings confirmed for the TV series,” said Bradley. According to the deputy minister of the dti, Bulelani Magwanishe, the mission to the US will enable the South African film producers to interact with some of the most influential players in the global film industry. These include more than 8 000 industry professionals such as producers, sellers, buyers, filmmakers, writers, financiers, directors and film commissioners from more than 80 countries. (ANA)