JOHANNESBURG, October 1- The community of Westbury in Johannesburg on Monday called on the provincial government to investigate the alleged complicity of police with those responsible for the ongoing violence in the area, while the opposition Democratic Alliance accused the ruling African National Congress of failing the community. Residents of Westbury once again blockaded roads into the area on Monday, this following the death last week of a woman caught in an alleged gang shoot-out. A child was also wounded in the incident. Residents of Westbury said they have had enough of the rising levels of crime in the area. “Today’s action by the community shows that they are fed up with the failing African National Congress (ANC) government and that they are desperate for change, which restores order and keeps the people safe,” DA Gauteng Premier candidate Solly Msimanga said. Msimanga, also the Mayor of Tshwane, said the Johannesburg Metro Police Department had already increased the number of Metro Police Officers in the area to help fight crime, yet the South African Police Service’s (SAPS) visibility had not increased. “It is high time that residents are given an honest, professional and well-resourced police service that is not corrupt, uncaring and colluding with gangsters and drug dealers,” Msimanga said . He said provincial government had a duty to protect the citizens of Gauteng from crime and criminals. Freedom and security were guaranteed under the Constitution, but the ANC-led government was failing to implement effective measures to ensure this. “It is clear that SAPS is not doing enough to curb crime in the area and that the residents of Westbury have lost faith in the police as the ANC is failing in its mandate to keep residents safe,” Msimanga said. He said the DA was calling on the MEC for Community Safety, Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane, to liaise with Provincial Police Commissioner Lieutenant-General Deliwe de Lange to send in the tactical response unit to assist with policing in the area, especially to fight crimes related to gangsterism and drugs. “I will be meeting with community leaders of Westbury in due course to engage with them on their concerns around crime in the area,” Msimanga added.