Clyde Ramalaine The unfolding court proceedings of the alleged atrocious crimes of a pastor Timothy Omotoso of the Jesus Dominion International based in Port Elizabeth who stands accused of having over a protracted period of time abused his privilege and office of pastor in preying on the most vulnerable, some of those merely 14 years old, leaves many of us as parents, members of SA society convulsed in anger, and sick to the point of vomiting. The mere thought of Pastor and abuser in reference to the same person is such a contradiction. The term pastor or as the Grecians referred to as ‘poimenon’ speaks of a shepherd, someone who cares for protects and defends while providing for the sheep. When the shepherd begins to turn on his own sheep as a means to an end, we have reached another level in our societal definition of what faith, church, the order of pastor’s office means to be a member of the Christian faith. We have seen this across denominational lines where the RCC among others remains plagued to defrock many more priests who have been fingered in the crimes of sodomising, in particular, boys. Yet it would be gravely unfair to pretend what plays out before our eyes in the testimony of these brave souls that it is a first in SA, or anywhere in the space where humans dwell. It is equally not right to necessarily want to frame this with an upper-African pastor problem that has invaded SA in particular since the advent of democracy.  It is too easy to make it off in that sense, allowing South African pastors to escape due to scrutiny. I am known strong campaigner for proper visa regulations for SA, I don’t agree with the notion of open borders for justifiable and sensible reasons that protects a citizenry and their legitimate rights as unique to the land of their birth. I am against the idea and practice where anyone can enter South Africa or anywhere else on a visitor’s visa and end up overstaying his/her visit and tomorrow claim being a pastor of a flock in SA. I don’t care how anointed you may claim to be or how called you may feel, you are not legal in SA you must be arrested and deported yesterday. It is also a fact that the church of the 21st century has become a hideout for failed business people, failed careers etc, where someone decides church is good business and has an interest purely anchored in monetary gain. South Africans are trying to make sense of the supporters of Omotoso who show up in defence of their leader. They are also questioning the defence attorney Daubermann whom we have learnt was assaulted by those who think him callous and insensitive in how he presented his questions. They simultaneously want to know why a Cheryl Zondi, the brave young lady who is a victim Omotoso’s alleged abuse, is rendered an accused. The spokesman of the Competition Commission, a dear friend, Bra Sipho Ngwema also perturbed by the unfolding saga of this court case, its brutality and callousness of reality supported by detailed in victim evidence, asked me why we have these situations in the life of the church. I do not pretend to know the totality of the answer to this very real question, yet as a social scientist and pastor, I have thought of this too. I herewith venture to respond with the following hardly exhaustive reasons for us having to hear the evidence we are exposed to in this pastor and member sex slave scandal. Thus, people forgive and are taught to always forgive as the Christian Didache leads.  In that context, it’s easy for some to abuse the grace of forgiveness until they render others objects of their pleasure. It is safe to conclude that the church is in a precarious state that seldom we want to admit as believers and members. It is here the words of Christ Jesus in Luke 18:8 confronts the professing Christian with the sobering truth when he paused and asked: “when the Son of man comes, will he find faith on the earth?