Hloni Mashigo  If you think the VBS “bank heist” report is fitting of a script to a movie, it gets even uglier. Information has emerged that then deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa was given the VBS report of over 2 billion rands of looting into the bank on 27 May 2017. Ramaphosa kept the report hidden from cabinet and the ANC’s national executive committee. What is more startling is that allegations suggest that Ramaphosa bartered a deal with the voting delegates of Limpopo province to elect him as president of the ANC in exchange for his silence.  According to Accountants Delloite’s: “It’s impossible that former minister of finance Nhlanhla Nene and Ramaphosa knew nothing about the report. What is strange is why it only came out a days after Nhlanhla Nene’s resignation”. The report implicates ANC heavyweights in the Limpopo, the Venda king and EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu and his brother Brian. One million rand is reported to have been given to the EFF as a cash gift. Ramaphosa is further accused of sitting on the report and not reporting it to the police even after his inauguration as president.  A group in the ANC in Limpopo say Ramaphosa had an “arrangement” with some voting delegates that they will be protected once he is in office. News24 reported that Ramaphosa was informed of the report early 2017. The dissenting group have joined a chorus of ANC branches from the Eastern Cape, Free State and Mpumalanga in a court bid to declare the Nasrec resolution that crowned Ramaphosa’s presidency invalid. The branches claim that delegates were paid to vote for Ramaphosa. More interestingly, in Mpumalanga the group has presented documents relating to deceased individuals whose names were used as voting delegates in the ANC’s 54th national elective conference. Ramaphosa’s spokesperson Khusela Diko denied Ramaphosa’s knowledge of fake branch members and prior knowledge of the VBS report. The DA says its laying criminal charges against Ramaphosa following reports that he had prior knowledge of looting at the bank but “made deals” instead of acting against corruption. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said that the charges against Ramaphosa would be in accordance with the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (POCA). 