Ayanda Mdluli As a society, South Africa still finds itself grappling with a series of challenges in the education, economics and entrepreneurship spheres of our existence as a people. Issues such as the lack of effective service delivery for people who want to make positive changes in our communities continue to be a stumbling block so much so, the impact of non-profit organisations and foundations has been at the forefront of economic change from a socio-economic perspective, pulling South Africans from all works all life out of the economic doldrums. One such foundation, the Cyril Ramaphosa Foundation has been immensely impactful in making a difference in people’s lives. Last week, Africa News 24-7 interviewed Mmabatho Maboya, who touch on broader economic issues facing the South Africa landscape, primarily because the foundation has a series of key objectives which aim to make a difference from a socio-economic perspective. One of the major socio-economic challenges is the rise of SA’s latest employment statistics where unemployment is now sitting at an all-time, particularly amongst the youth where it is said that 60 percent of young people in South Africa are unemployed, with many more being unemployable. Maboya has extensive experience in a number of industries, having worked for various local governments and state-owned enterprises before rising through the ranks of the foundation and being responsible for crafting its long-term strategy where she worked closely with the previous CEO, Donné Nicol in bringing in new partners, funders and overseeing the general growth of the foundation into what it is today. Like many other professionals in her space, Maboya attributes her growth to her experience that she obtained in major industries that she has worked for that helped pave the way into moulding her into becoming the CEO of the foundation “I think my experiences in the local government, I found those who have contributed quite a lot in the type of manager and leader that I am today because I was working with all levels within the communities that we served.,” she says. Her highlight is back in 2008 where she joined Eskom as a Stakeholder Relations Manager. During this time, the world had faced an economic downturn thanks to the global financial crisis and South Africa was going through its first instances of load shedding, which sent the country into an economic tailspin. “I joined Eskom at a time where we had just experienced the first load shedding back in 2008. Obviously when you are someone that is involved with stakeholders, it was a very difficult period during that time especially because I was much younger, with less experience,” she explains. Speaking on the dynamics of the foundation, Maboya says it has moved in the space of education and entrepreneurship for more than 14 years with its partners spending millions on bursaries and incubation programmes for entrepreneurs who currently employ more than a 116 0000 people in their businesses. “We have also worked with over 1000 black businesses and this programme has showed us the potential that emerging small businesses can contribute to the economy. We have also provided services and training for various organisations and have specific areas for businesses in our incubation programme to create employment for a minimum of four people in SA. In education, we view government as a very key component to provide quality education. Especially quality education where a lot of learners can obtain quality education. Our various projects have afforded us to work with local FETs and artisans to build education infrastructure and engage members of the communities to gain buy in on the work that we are doing,” she explains. Explaining in more detail, Maboya says the foundation ha partnerships with the Small Enterprise Development Agency (SEDA) and has more strong links to assist small businesses under their incubation programme with funding. “The main thing that we drive to work at is to ensure that black businesses are given a chance to participate in the economy by participating in an incubation project. So far there has been a R2 billion revenue steam generated in our incubation programmes plus 116 000 jobs being created. As much as we grapple with various socio-economic issues, these issues are global challenges. We are also conditioned to global challenges and for us it’s important that our projects impact on systemic change. We cannot do it alone,” says Maboya