JOHANNESBURG, October 1 – A day before the 20-year-old man accused of raping a six-year-old girl in the toilet at a Dros restaurant makes his first court appearance, the African National Congress (ANC) Gauteng Provincial Legislature Women’s Caucus has lambasted him for his “abhorrent behaviour”. The suspect, (Nicholas Ninow) who is facing four charges, including rape and assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, will appear in the Pretoria regional court on Tuesday. A video that has circulated on social media showing a bleeding naked man exchanging words with a woman and other accusers is thought to be that of the Ninow. The attack occurred in Silverton last month. “The ANC GPL Women’s Caucus has learned with shock and dismay the continued violence directed at children and women. We condemn the abhorrent behaviour of the Dros rape suspect, who even after being found violating a six-year-old, continued with verbal insults and physical attacks on the mother of the victim,” the caucus said in a statement issued Monday. “We are appalled at the brazen attack on the defenceless innocent child in what is supposed to be a safe space. As the Women’s Caucus we will follow this case with keen interest. “We call upon the criminal justice system to make sure that no effort is spared in ensuring the successful prosecution of the culprit, in the interest of public safety we request that bail be denied when the suspect appears in court on Tuesday 02 October 2018. “We must at all times remain vigilant against savages who are on the prowl targeting women and children. We encourage the parents of other children abused by the suspect to report the crimes to police.” Thoko Magagula, the chairperson of the ANC Women’s Caucus Gauteng Provincial Legislature, said the safety of women and children cannot be regarded as a peripheral issue anymore. “Part of the gender violence we are witnessing is because of the patriarchal and societal degradation of women’s’ rights. The stance against this violence must be rooted at the fundamental re-organisation of the socio-economic status of women in the country.” (ANA) 