PORT ELIZABETH, October 9 – Port Elizabeth police in the Eastern Cape confirmed that two off-duty police constables “misrepresented” themselves in an attempt to attend the human trafficking case involving a Nigerian pastor. Drama unfolded on Tuesday when a woman was seen arguing with the investigating officer, detective Peter Plaatjies. Plaatjies instructed police members to remove the woman who kicked up a dramatic fuss screaming in the court foyer. Court proceedings were not yet in session at the time. The woman was then forcibly removed and refused to speak to the media after the fracas with police. Police spokesperson, Colonel Priscilla Naidu said it was alleged that two constables arrived at court on Tuesday and produced SAPS appointment certificates. Naidu said the two women informed court security they were ‘protocol observers’ but security became suspicious and informed the investigating officer. Naidu also said there was no role of ‘protocol observers’ within SAPS. “They were allowed into the court however the security reported the matter to the investigating officer who approached the women and questioned them,” said Naidu. Naidu said that police would investigate the matter internally. One of the police constables was later seen being taken away by members from the Jesus Dominion International Church. The Nigerian pastor faces a total of 63 charges which include human trafficking, rape, sexual assault racketeering and conspiracy in aiding another person to commit sexual assault. Two women, his alleged accomplices, are accused of recruiting girls from all over the country for purposes of sexual exploitation. The trio have yet to plead to the charges against them. The 58-year-old televangelist allegedly trafficked more than 30 girls and women who were from various branches of his church to a house in Umhlanga, KwaZulu-Natal, where he allegedly sexually exploited them. He also faces charges of fraud and for being in the country illegally. The pastor was arrested on April 20, last year, by the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, at the Port Elizabeth Airport. According to the State, some of the alleged victims are as young as 13-years-old. -African News Agency (ANA)